- Now that's it's gotten cold, I find myself heading to my TV and catching up on some shows.  A couple in particular have caught my attention: Only Murders In The Building, and the anticipated second season of Severance.
- Don't need to get into many details of either (although you should probably watch them both), except to say they're both deeply engaging mystery shows in their own ways: they take you on twists and turns until often the final sentence or scene in the season, leaving you stunned at the path that got you to the end.  And then all you want to do it go talk to other people about it - OMITB has been a bit of a bonding moment amongst staff over the last couple weeks.
- I'm convinced that there's really only two types of folks, then, who watch these kind of shows: folks who reveal the spoilers, and those who don't.  
- Could be all sorts of reasons why people like to give away the spoilers - sometimes to show off, sometimes accidents, sometimes exctiement... but I think it's more about timing than anything.  In an ideal world, we want to be able to explore something together that we've discovered.  Maybe not everyone gets it at the same time, though, so we have to be patient, lest we skew people with our own viewpoint on it.  Once folks have been able to complete the whole season in their own time, then there's the chance to catch details - maybe watch a second time!
- So imagine for a second that throughout your life, you've heard the story that was in Isa.  Here is the final episode of a terrific whodunit, with twists and turns worthy of an Emmy and then some: the people is Israel continue to fall upon dark times, but eventually, if you look up and look around, everyone will be back together again.  Your heart, *your* heart, shall thrill and rejoice.  In the midst of some difficult times, you'll get the abundance of the whole world at your feet.  What a way to end the season!
- This whole story also hinges on some clues about who will help bring this and more to fruition - do you remember in Advent we hear this text?  In Bethlehem of Judea, who aren't just the cute little tribe off on the side - you're going to have someone come to you that will shepherd you as well.
- And what we find is Herod trying to be the ultimate spoiler teller.  
	- He thinks, of course, he's got it figured out - he's trying to hold on to whatever power he has, preeminent middle manager that he is - and he wants to insert himself into throwing off the whole story.  He thinks he's got it all figured out.  He wants to tell the magi the story.
	- And there's all sorts of ways this could have gone... but it seems like they picked the best option, which is so often the best response to someone who wants to end up throwing the story: you just ignore them.  You experience the delight of the epiphany on its own terms, without the need for someone else in the moment to tell you exactly how it's going to play out in the moment.
- So how might we share together after the experience - one I think we do crave for, just as we love these mysteries.
- Let's take a look again at Paul in Ephesians, this time out of The Message
	- The mystery is that people who have never heard of God and those who have heard of him all their lives (what I’ve been calling outsiders and insiders) stand on the same ground before God. ***They get the same offer, same help, same promises in Christ Jesus. The Message is accessible and welcoming to everyone, across the board. This is my life work: helping people understand and respond to this Message. It came as a sheer gift to me, a real surprise, God handling all the details.*** When it came to presenting the Message to people who had no background in God’s way, I was the least qualified of any of the available Christians. God saw to it that I was equipped, but you can be sure that it had nothing to do with my natural abilities. ***And so here I am, preaching and writing about things that are way over my head, the inexhaustible riches and generosity of Christ. My task is to bring out in the open and make plain what God, who created all this in the first place, has been doing in secret and behind the scenes all along.*** Through followers of Jesus like yourselves gathered in churches, this extraordinary plan of God is becoming known and talked about even among the angels!
	- It's not the giving away, but it's the moment once people have had a chance to see all that is there, to share in the conversation - not to hold on to something, but precisely because it's the sharing in the wonder of witnessing all of it.  And we might not get it all ourselves, but just in the way we celebrate the twists and turns that get us to the final resolve, we can gather together in wonder.
	- We certainly are headed towards a season in the next year where we'll do the same.  Sooner than we know, buildings will come up, and the wonder of what God has promised us will start to materialize.  People will be curious... and there will be epiphanies all around.  What is it like for us to enter into the conversation like Paul?