- I want to offer today first, that if you've been here since we've moved through the first section here of Luke, you have certainly been met with some difficult texts to start your year.  Yet each of them seems to carry particular gravity given our current moment culturally.
- Throughout it all, a through-line has been present: that these texts, this walk, demands something of us - when we hear the words _Ecclesia reformata, semper reformanda secundum verbum Dei_, we do well to keep in mind what the good, hard work of faith asks of us.
	- The church must change - we must always change - must always be engaged with the world, speak to its ills, seek for its renewal, but it is not of our own doing.  When the church struggled in Germany in World War II, it engaged deeply in the text to respond strongly against Nazism and the creation of a German National Church that was a mere front for the power of fascism, which is why we have the Barmen Declaration in our Confessions.  Moreover, when the South African churches reflected deeply on the support of Apartheid, it produced the Confession of Belhar, the most recent addition to our Confessions.  This way of living, way of enacting our faith are lenses our tradition has determined are indentity shaping: just as we sing from the catalog of all God's beloved spanning the globe, so we carry the stories of prophetic reform.  We are assured that the people of faith have and will continue to respond to God's call.
	- Which is perhaps most critical of all... we often shorten the phrase to the first four words: reformed and always reforming, but even that is not an accurate translation and intent of the phrase, because it misses the main mover: God.  If we place ourselves at the center, we can rest on our own actions, our own desires.  It begins to confuse the lenses we're apt to apply to our world.  As Anna Case-Winters, a PCUSA theologian and professor reminds us: "The church is the object of God's reforming work... the latin verb is in fact passive... much better translated as... 'always to be reformed.'"
- This is a tall order.  I know.  Perhaps more than ever, I am struck in varying ways how to be asked to be changed by a God being revealed can at times be too much.  It is more often the more appealing route to find insulating comfort in my own agency.  In other words, when God presents the world and invites change as it is hungry and weeping, and then calls us to the act of reform, well, my bed is warm and the blankets easily pull over my head.  Let me cocoon myself enough to quiet God's calling.
- In her commentary this week on our Gospel text, Mary Hinkle Shore, ELCA pastor and former dean of the Lutheran Theological Southern Seminary, seems to sympathize when she writes that "The difficulty in (exploring our Gospel passage) in a 21st-century American, mainline Christian context is that most of us who will hear this word are not inclined to trust it. When are the poor and hungry anything but a cause for sadness (except when they inspire an odd sort of gratitude, as in, “There but for the grace of God go I”)? And who can endure character assassination, which we know as canceling or bullying, even for the sake of our faith? We aim to be rich, full, laughing, and respected. Hearing the beatitudes from Jesus, we may be tempted to think, “I’ll take my chances with the status quo.”"
	- YES!  Guilty as charged.  I want to be well-liked, want to be appreciated.  I learned early that Jacksonville more than anywhere else I've worked, one lives on their reputation.  I want the church the grow, so why wouldn't I maintain the status quo?  How many times might we, when approaching a text that demands our response and perhaps reform, find ourselves uneasy: let's not destroy ourselves on the third rails of the status quo.  Better to be liked.
- I think, then, we might hear things between Jeremiah and Jesus as finger wags: a perverted heart, Jeremiah complains: who gets it?  Woe, woe, woe to you for good things.  And if you notice, the woes cross class and culture: the poor and the rich want to be full.  Immigrant and citizen alike want to laugh.  Straight folk and queer folk all want to be spoken well of.  We can trust this as given.  Is this not God's promises to God's faithful?
	- Perhaps better, then, is to consider more deeply the *secundum verbum Dei*
		- The word woe, is more like an interjection of horror: Jesus offers us a "Yikes."  Eugene Peterson translates it like this: "But it’s trouble ahead if you think you have it made. What you have is all you’ll ever get. And it’s trouble ahead if you’re satisfied with yourself. Your self will not satisfy you for long. And it’s trouble ahead if you think life’s all fun and games. There’s suffering to be met, and you’re going to meet it. “There’s trouble ahead when you live only for the approval of others, saying what flatters them, doing what indulges them. Popularity contests are not truth contests—look how many scoundrel preachers were approved by your ancestors! Your task is to be true, not popular."
		- So better to think of these woes less as judgment, and more as a spiritual intervention, we start to see better what's happening: if you live as though it is your agency, your heart, you own doing, well, yikes.
		- Jeremiah seems to get that too: we so often connect perversion with sexual deviance, but more accurately, it's better to think of it as something incurable, and disastrous: Yikes, Jeremiah says.  Our own heart - it will tear shift our lenses to the things that don't matter.  We will rest on our own strength, our own ideas, and when our energies flag, we'll crave normalcy and status quo, and while there may be momentary comforts, they lead to incurable spiritual sickness.
- But yet.  But yet the promises persist should we not believe that the self-made comforts are enough.  That allures of reputation and and wealth - our cocoons - will wilt, our mere flesh our strength, the very muscles and sinews we hope to preserve atrophy.  But, in this season and all seasons, would we not rather be the tree planted by the waters, extending our roots ever deeper with the efforts of the world imagined when Jesus unrolled the scroll, and Mary sang high praises at the Magnificat?  In our droughts we are not anxious?  Is that not what truly the world needs - not reputation or wealth or the temporary comfort of good humor but a non-anxious, ever growing tree bearing fruit?  That is who we are.  That is who we are called to be, what we must be.  So is the *verbum Dei*, and should we persist in its invitation to reform - of ourselves, of culture, of the forces that demand only the power of its status quo - we will find ourselves evergreen, bearing the good fruit that itself feeds the hungry, shades the sunburnt and weary.  This is our call.  And so ends the hearing of the Word, now begins the living of it.