Have you guys heard the phrase, “Insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result?” So, if we want something new, we need to do a new thing. We get out of it what we put into it. This means that if we want something different, we have to do something different. 

This week, as our series on radical love in action comes to a close, I've looked back over my sermon notes and noticed several recurring quotes and themes that Pastor Adam and Pastor Jessica have woven throughout the other sermons in this series. One of those recurring quotes is that we are the church “reformed and always to be reformed by God” (to use the translation of the Presbyterian PC-USA motto by Anna Case-Winters that Adam quoted last week). Each week, we’ve been learning more about what it means to live out a life of radical love in action the Jesus way. And… that usually means doing something different.

Now, once upon a time, during an era that feels like a past life, I used to live in a homeless shelter. Now before you judge, keep in mind that it was a very nice homeless shelter. We had really cool bunk beds, clean showers, and a whole charity closet of donated clothes for any of us to choose from. And best of all for me, I had lots of friends. My bunk mates and I hung out together, traded clothes, and stayed up late swapping stories well past bedtime. Which I imagine is what it feels like to share a room with your sisters. 

One week, we decided to go to a church together. A few of our group were a little nervous, but one lady in particular had never been to a church before and admitted that she was nothing short of terrified. Let's call her Janet. So we went into this church together, and it felt like we were Moses walking through the Red Sea. People parted in front of us and scurried out of our way left and right. To be fair, we were probably a little smelly, and not all of us had regular access to a laundromat, but we were very friendly. I tried to greet a few people, and you would have thought I had something contagious that they were afraid of catching. I was ignored, and one woman even looked me right in the eye before turning her back on me and pretending I wasn’t there. We sat down in the front row (you might have noticed the front row is still my favorite spot).

The past few weeks in this series on love in action, we’ve been focusing on different parts of our motto, “reformed and always to be reformed by God.” We learned about the process of re-forming as re-shaping. We learned that God is the one doing the re-shaping as God qualifies the called; it’s not something we can do on our own. And we learned about situations in our history where God has re-shaped the Presbyterian church (as evidenced in the confessions). Last week’s gospel reading in Luke left off just after the beatitudes in the sermon on the plain, right where this week’s reading picks up. 

Today we read the golden rule in Luke, and I’m pretty sure most of us are familiar with it: “Do to others as you would have them do to you.” When Jesus gave the sermon on the plain, he was with his disciples but also surrounded by a large crowd of people that were pushing closer on all sides trying to touch him to be healed. Last week we learned that just before Jesus preached the beatitudes, he looked directly at his disciples and spoke to them. This week, again, Jesus pauses and says the phrase, “But I say to you who are listening.” This message is targeted. 

Jesus is speaking directly to those who have been listening to the beatitudes and the rest of his message. Those who wish to be Jesus’ followers. Those people who John later says will be set apart from others by how they love one another. This is more targeted than the church “reformed and always to be reformed by God.” This is where Jesus talks directly to us about how God reforms and re-shapes us as individuals on a more personal level than the church as a whole.  

When I was sitting in that church service with my shelter friends, I was definitely pretty annoyed and holding those Christians to that standard. I was judging them on how they were loving other people (or not) . They were not treating others how they wanted to be treated; I was appalled. These people were supposed to be Christians and here they were ignoring us just because maybe we looked a little stereotypically “homeless”. People were whispering around us, and I heard enough snippets to know that they were talking about us. Spoiler alert: none of it was good. 

The longer we sat there, the more steamed I got. Not only were people ignoring us, judging us, and whispering about us, but also not a single person bothered asking us our names… As I sat in church, I should have been listening to the songs, scriptures, and sermon. I should have been doing what God instructed in our psalm reading today, “Do not fret because of the wicked”... I was definitely fretting. That psalm also says, “Trust in the Lord and do good,” but I was not in a mood to do that either. Psalm 37 goes on to say, “Take delight in the Lord.” While sitting in that worship service, I should have been taking delight in the Lord. I should have heard the pastor teaching about the good news of the gospel. But instead, I admit, that I was getting very angry. The more I sat, the more I stewed in my bitterness. And the more I stewed, the less I listened to God. And the less I listened, the more I judged these people as rude, unkind, and “un-Christian” (whatever that means). I was so wrapped up in my own bitterness that I didn't even realize when the worship service ended. 

Janet was tugging on my coat-sleeve insistently, and to my surprise, she had a big smile on her face.  Before I could ask her what she was so happy about, she started eagerly whispering that we could help them. I didn't know what she was talking about, apparently I had missed something… It turns out that the pastor had reminded the congregation about the winter coat drive they were doing for local children affected by poverty. And the reason Janet was so excited was that somebody had donated a lot of children's coats to our homeless shelter charity closet, but we were an adult-only shelter. Children and families went to other shelters; we had no need for those children's coats. But this church did. This church of people who I had unknowingly classified as my enemies. They needed something that we could give them to help with their clothing drive. And I did not want to give it. 

After Jesus directly addresses those “who are listening,” the next thing he says is: “Love your enemies; do good to those who hate you; bless those who curse you; pray for those who mistreat you.” Wow, talk about a plot twist. In that church, faced with an opportunity to bless children with winter coats, I wanted to refuse just to spite the people who I thought had wronged me. Forget the “other guy”... I was the one not loving my enemies in that church. I was the one not wanting to do good to those who hated me that day. I was the one stubbornly refusing to bless those who cursed me. I wanted to treat these perceived enemies the same way they were treating me. But that’s not what the golden rule says. 

Jesus doesn’t say treat others the same exact way they treat you. If someone is being mean, being mean back is not what Jesus wants us to do. According to the New Living Translation, the golden rule says we’re supposed to “treat others the way we would like to be treated.” If I were following the instruction of Psalm 37 and “refraining from anger” and taking “delight in the Lord” during that worship service, I might have found it easier to treat them with the same friendliness, consideration, and love I wanted them to show to me. If I were following God's instruction I might have opened my heart and mind to God to see how God would re-shape and re-form me.

I would love to tell you that I opened my heart and mind to God that day, listened to the Holy Spirit, loved my enemy instead of complaining about them, and spearheaded the process of donating the child-sized coats from our shelter to that church’s children’s coat drive. But instead, I was the voice of resistance as Janet spearheaded the process. Every step of the way, I urged her to consider donating them to a different church’s coat drive. 

But, Janet was true to her word when she promised that church she would seek permission and arrange our shelter giving them the coats. Janet set foot in a church for the first time, and was afraid. But Janet chose to do something different and let God re-shape her in the process. I didn’t see the truth of God’s love in this situation until I finally asked Janet in frustration, “Why are you being nice to them; they are mean people?” and she replied something to the effect of, “God’s nice to me even when I’m mean, plus when you call them mean, aren’t you judging them the same way you’re upset that they’re judging you?” OOFF. Talk about walking into a brick wall of truth. But Janet was right.

In the sermon on the plain, Jesus says, “Do not judge, and you will not be judged; do not condemn, and you will not be condemned. Forgive, and you will be forgiven; give, and it will be given to you... for the measure you give will be the measure you get back.” Let me repeat that, “the measure you give will be the measure you get back”. We get out of it what we put into it. This means that if we want something different, we have to do something different. Insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result. So, if we are tired of insanity and want something new, we need to do a new thing. We need to love anyway.  

Learn from my mistakes; try not to do what I did at that church years ago. Let’s do better than my example. Instead of how I was quick to judge others’ unkindness, let’s try treating others how we would like to be treated and love them anyway. I was so ready to label people as my enemy at the smallest unkindness that I forgot to pay attention and to worship God. I was so sure that I was on the correct “side” of the golden rule, that I forgot to trust and delight in the Lord and to let God reform and re-shape me. We as a church are “reformed and always to be reformed by God,” but it starts with us being re-formed by God as individuals. Let’s do something different and try doing good (even if someone is mean to us), and love them anyway. Let’s try treating others how we want to be treated. There are many times in life I haven’t done that very well, but I keep trying because God is still forming, re-forming, shaping, and re-shaping me. I’m a work in progress. We’re all a work in progress, even those we label as our enemies. Let’s try something different; let’s try loving them anyway. 

“So ends the hearing of the word and begins the living of it”. Amen.