I have recently been working my way through a biography of John Lewis, the Georgia congressman and famed civil rights leader. A significant portion of the book focuses on Lewis’ involvement in the Civil Rights movements, especially nonviolent desegratation and voting rights campaigns in the 60s while he was a college student. Across the south, from Nashville, TN, to Jackson, MS and many points in between, Lewis endured taunting, humiliations, violence, arrests, and jail-time as he asserted his right to join his white peers in restaurants, on buses, at swimming pools, and in the voting booth. He was famed in the movement for his commitment to the principles of nonviolence, for his ability to meet everything from jeers to slurs to arrests to active beatings with a calm demeanor, looking his opponent eye-to-eye but without reacting or retaliating.

At the time, Lewis was a theological student, and he was motivated by his Christian commitment and by the example of Jesus. As I have read of the depth of commitment of Lewis and his peers, of their audacious persistence in loving those who saw them as second-class citizens, of their willingness to pay any price, including their very lives, to see the dignity of all God’s image-bearers honored and upheld, I have found myself moved and convicted time and time again. Had I been a peer of Lewis’s, what would I have done? Would I have sat shoulder to shoulder with him at the lunch counter, willing to sacrifice my safety and freedom for my neighbor’s, or would I have justified my own inaction in the name of a false peace and unity? And what am I doing today? How does my Christian commitment to the ethic of God’s peaceable kingdom, my desire to grow into the likeness of Christ, how do those motivate me to act for justice, for love, for peace in the world today?

Stories shape us. They move us. The best works of art call forth something in us that we have not encountered before and send us forth into the world as people changed, even if only a hair. They give us the imagination to live differently in the world. Reading the story of John Lewis gives me a different imagination for the world. More importantly, like Congressman Lewis, the stories of Scripture shape how I move in the world.

Our texts today give us two stories of what can happen when we encounter the story of Scripture, of how we can be changed by the text. In the first, the people of God have returned from exile, and they are grappling with who they are now as a community, as a people. Their identity had always been tied to the temple and to the land, ties that were severed when the Babylonians cruelly destroyed the temple and ripped the cream of Israelite society from their homes. Now they have been allowed back, but the city they once knew is a different place, occupied by a different people. Under the leadership of Ezra the priest and Nehemiah the administrator, the community rebuilds the temple and the city wall, and then they once more gather to hear the Torah read.

Who knows how long it has been since members of this community have heard the words of the Lord. Did the captives whisper the promises of the God of Exodus one to another on the long road to exile, and the long road home again? Did those who were left behind continue to go to the site of the temple, though it no longer stood, to sing psalms and recite prayers? What memory of these words was left, 3 or 4 generations removed?

But when the community finds themselves back in a changed promised land, before a temple that doesn’t quite match the splendor of what came before, when they need to know who they are and remember the God that sustains them, they return to God’s word. They gather to hear the great story of faith. They remember that they are people shaped by the law, by God’s instruction to Moses, and they seek to be reshaped once more as people of the Word.

Several centuries later, a young Jewish man enters the synagogue in his hometown. He too has been taught that his identity is wrapped up in the words of God, by the grand story of God with and among his ancestors, of the Lord who has rescued the people and will rescue them again. The story is in his bones – it is the song his mother sang as she carried him in her womb, it is the teaching he debated as a precocious pre-teen earnestly inserting himself into the conversations of the scholars in the temple, it is the rhythm of his life as he has showed up in the synagogue week in and week out “as was his custom,” as Luke tells us today.

This man knows the story, and he knows his place in it. He picks up the scroll of Isaiah and reads one of its most beautiful promises – of a world of healing and wholeness, of liberation and freedom, a world that basks in the favor of God. And then he has the audacity to say that today that Scripture has been fulfilled in the hearing of the congregation.

Jesus is a man shaped by the Scripture, whose life and ministry is marked by the contours of the story of God.  We emphasize so much Jesus as God, the divine part of the incarnation, that we can tend to forget his humanity. We imagine he is all-knowing even as he walked the earth, but the stories of the Gospels remind us that Jesus is deeply and fully human, that he changed and matured and grew, that he had to live into himself just as much as any of us do. It matters that he steeped himself in the Story, because the story shaped the God Man into _this Jesus_.

These stories, this text, the Word of God, it does something to us. Yes, like any other story, it has the power to shape our imaginations, but it is more than that. One of my most deeply held convictions of the Christian faith is that these words are more than the sum of their parts, they are more than just a great work of literature or a volume of wisdom. As the Confession of 1967 tells us, one of the confessional documents of our tradition, “The Holy Scriptures…are received and obeyed as the word of God written. The Scriptures are not a witness among others, but the witness without parallel…in which [the church] hears the word of God and by which its faith and obedience are nourished and regulated.” In other words, we don’t believe that these are just any old words, but that these are truly the story that God has told and is telling in the world today, a story that has the power to remake the world. This book, this text, is a living witness to the person and work of God, made fresh for us by the Holy Spirit so that it is truly a word for us, even as it was a word for the returned community of Jerusalem at the turn of the 5th century BCE and a word for the community gathered in a synagogue in Nazareth 2000 years ago. We believe that this witness shapes us, challenges us, moves us, changes us, molds us into God’s people in the world even as this world is being made new. I the beginning, God made the world with a word, and today God is remaking the world with the Word.

There is a popular saying in the reformed tradition, which is the stream of the Christian church we swim in, that our denomination actually upholds in our constitutional documents: Reformed and Always Being Reformed. The PC(USA) actually revamped its website recently, and on the new homepage this phrase is prominently displayed. It is this idea that God is always molding us, as individuals and as the church, into the likeness of Christ, into the people of God. It is an injection of humility, an acknowledgement that who we are today, the church as we know it, who we understand God to be, it all will always fall short, and we should be willing to be wrong, to allow God to change us, to re-form us, if you will. But the phrase actually comes from a longer Latin phrase: _Ecclesia reformata, semper reformanda secundum verbum Dei._ The church reformed, always being reformed, according to the Word of God. Our reformation is not capricious – God’s work does not just blow in on the wind. No, it is God’s word that reforms us. It is in and through and with and toward God’s word that we become the people God calls us to be.

Inherent in that idea is that we then bear some responsibility to put ourselves in the path of God’s word. We ought to steep ourselves in it, to hear it and read it, to reflect on it and wrestle with it, to study it, and perhaps most importantly, to love it. And we have to show up to this text with enough humility that we are willing to be wrong, that we are willing to be changed, to be reformed into someone new. When we hear the story of John Lewis, we start to believe that the world could be a better place. When we immerse ourselves in the story of God, we are shaped by the Spirit to be part of the work of a new world.

When the exiled community gathered once more at the temple, and once more heard the words of the Torah read aloud, they wept. They were not the community to whom those words had been written. They were not the people God had called them to be so long ago; they were still picking up the pieces of life torn asunder. They heard a call for change in those words, and they were afraid. But Ezra the priest reminded them of the great promise of allowing ourselves to be a part of God’s great story – we are invited to feast in the joy of the Lord. The Word will nourish us. He says to the people gathered, “Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to those for whom nothing is prepared…for the joy of the Lord is your strength.”

Friends, let us to heed the words of God, immerse ourselves in the story, and let us be nourished by this Word, that we too may join in the joyful feast of God’s people that is set for us in Scripture.

In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and shall be forever. Amen.