- I had appreciated the way that on Sunday, we were left with a beautiful, mountaintop moment.  And I'm hopeful that if you were here or could watch online, you were able to take it all in.  
- What I think can be so beautiful about these moments are that they can say a lot about what we value, what we find as worthy of our time and celebration.  There's a moment where we can take stock of the fruits of our labor, and savor it all.
- Yet, really, outside of that, there's not much else we do.  I often think about mountaintop moments as being a little passive.  We are not as much acting, as having the moment act upon us.  We are changed because of it.
	- I started thinking about some of my own mountain moments after Jessica's sermon, and while I've not been to Nepal, I did a few years ago spend a week in Bar Harbor, Maine with four of my closest friends for a guy's week.  Towards the end of the week, our group and a couple other people we got to know in the hostel we were staying in decided to climb the Beehive Trail.  And it begins with a 450 foot direct climb up the rock face - one that you can get in trouble with should the weather change.  And certainly, it was a bit strenuous, but what you're rewarded with is all of the beauty of Acadia National Park.  Clearly, I ended up climbing back down.
	- And so, yes, while I was rewarded by the moment, the real active work came in the scurrying in the hour before, and the work after - and perhaps more importantly, the preservation of a new person I became because of that moment - I was someone who climbed Beehive.  Now, it's one of the most trafficked trails in Acadia, so lots of people can claim that.  But with each mountaintop moment, I claim and maintain.
		- We are people who have labored to have a building come up from the ground, and we are in short time going to reach that summit.  We will be able to name ourselves as faithful to the task we discerned was God's call.
		- The Poindexter family last week celebrated their baptism, and we could joyfully participate in a mountaintop moment with them - communally, we gazed at the crest again, even if for us it was more passive.  But either way, we all name ourselves as Beloved.
		- But, as Jessica rightfully noted, today we're moving into Lent, on our way back off the mountaintop moment of Sunday.  So the question before us is how we carry the moutaintop with us - how might we claim and maintain?
- As we begin in Luke today, notice how he starts: "Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan."  This calls to mind the story right before this as Jesus was baptized.
	- And given the nature of the moment, it certainly feels like a mountaintop moment itself.
	- And here, remember, we hear the voice of God speaking from on high, saying: "You are my Son, the Beloved; with you I am well pleased."
	- This act, in its mountaintopness, is passive.  Jesus *is* baptized - the Greek itself is in the passive tense.  But in it, the reward of the previous effort is truly something to claim and maintain: Beloved of God, one who God takes delight and pleasure in.  And after a bit of genealogy, we come back to where we are this Sunday.
	- I appreciate that over the years, the scholarship around this text has grown, and in the updated version of our Pew Bibles, the NRSVue, we rename this section not as the "tempting of Jesus," but instead "the testing of Jesus."  Here is one of the first realities of coming down off the mountain - it can, and well, test what we've been named.  The wilderness strengthens our will to maintain.
	- And over and over again, Jesus reclaims the Belovedness, his connection as part of God's family, one who is delighted in by God.
		- Justo Gonzales, in his commentary on Luke, provides a way of considering how we might think of this... speaking from the perspective of those who are on the margins, he notes that 
		- For us, the most common temptation is not so much thinking too highly of ourselves, as it is accepting the low opinion that others have of us, their definition of our roles, and not trusting in the God after whose image we have been created, and who will save and vindicate the divine image in us. From the perspective of the powerful, the root of all sin may be pride; but “from below,” it is false humility, acquiescing to injustice, not trusting God’s definition of who we are... [speaking of the third temptation, he continues:] Although we often think of the temptation of jumping off the pinnacle of the temple as the temptation of a great stunt, catching the attention and respect of all, there is no mention here of other witnesses beyond the devil and Jesus himself. The devil seems to be saying: “I don’t believe that you are the Son of God. In fact, I don’t think you are too sure either. So prove it to me and to yourself by jumping off the pinnacle of the temple and having angels come to protect you.”
		- While we might not be able to claim ourselves as those who are on the margins, what we can appreciate is the vulnerability that comes with  maintaining our mountaintop naming - and that the temptation is not so much the belief that we are *too good,* but perhaps we might not believe that what we have been given - without effort on our own - is real.
		- Am I really someone who is capable of climbing a sheer rock face?  Are we truly people who persevere?  Are we truly beloved?  The mountaintop moments are so beautiful because those answers are so clear, and pressed upon us without any effort of our own - it's the afterward that's hard.
	- What can strengthen our resolve, and give us fuel, is a reminder that we are not alone.
		- In Deut, we hear the words of Moses to the people once they've arrived at the promiseland: but they aren't there yet.  They are still on their journey to where they will end.
		- And what they are to do, as they take up residence, is to remember:
			- That they are a people who have been brought through wilderness,
			- That they had their name of God's people tested by Egypt, and yet it was secure.
			- And that, with all the people - each who have found a home within the wilderness - the abundance of their continued efforts.
			- We know that those forty years as the people of God wandered wasn't always easy - they wanted to go back to Egypt, got tired of eating the same thing day in and day out, sought other gods - but again, it seems, not out of pride, but rather because the audacious name that they were given - God's chosen people - was too difficult to believe.
- Dear siblings, we are heading off the mountain.  We are entering the wilderness.  And what we witnessed on every mountain - what was given to us, is real, true, and what we can carry with us.
	- And we will be tested, tempted, to believe that what was offered to us isn't who we are, isn't what we are to become.
	- But what we'll find, should we be willing to not give into that temptation, is that there is a home in the wilderness.  There is a God who provides.  There is a companion in our savior who walks with us, tempted as we are to not believe and yet does not falter.  That we carry with us the same story as God's chosen, wilderness wandering.  They beckon us to join them, to find community and space.  And when we do finally reach our next mountaintop, named again, we can give thanks for all that has happened, and continue on.
	- And so ends the proclamation of God's Word, now comes the living of it.