When I think of my own transcendant mountaintop experiences in life, ironically what comes to mind for me is a moment when I stood in a literal, physical valley. About 15 years ago, I had the chance to trek to the Annapurna Sanctuary in Nepal, which is the valley from which summit attempts are made in the Annapurna Range. The only catch is this valley sits at 14,000 feet elevation, with the mountains of Annapurna rising for another staggering 10-15,000 feet. It took us 7 days of hiking to reach the Sanctuary, 7 grueling days across streams, through mountain villages, in and out of lush vegetation and cold tundra. In the Annapurna Sanctuary itself, the scale and the views are breathtaking, as is the thin air. But most breathtaking of all is an Annapurna sunrise.

I don’t know if you have ever experienced a mountain sunrise, but as the sun comes up, before you can even see it over the peaks to the east, you start to see it’s glow on western peaks. Because the Annapurna peaks are so high, they are just bare rock face and snow, no vegetation, and so as the sun inched ever higher, though we could not see it behind the eastern peaks, the western mountain faces started to reflect the sun’s bright rays, catching the golden hues of the sunlight on the very tip top peaks, while everything else remained in shadow. The mountaintops glowed as if on fire and the light danced on the peaks, in what remains the most dazzling sunrise I have ever experienced. There was nothing to do in the face of that sunrise but sing the glory of God. My parents and I stood in slackjawed awe, surrounded by new friends, and we read Psalm 148, which I cannot hear to this day without picturing that sunrise in my mind:

Praise the Lord!  
Praise the Lord from the heavens;  
   praise him in the heights!  
Praise him, all his angels;  
   praise him, all his host!

  
Praise him, sun and moon;  
   praise him, all you shining stars!  
Praise him, you highest heavens,  
   and you waters above the heavens!

I caught a glimpse that morning of the glory of God in way that I will probably never see again in my lifetime.

But the thing about hiking up to a high point, is you have to come back down. And of course, hiking back down is always easier than going up (although your knees may not thank you for it). But in Nepal, “descending the mountain” is a deceptive term. Our Nepali guide liked to jokingly refer to the terrain as “Nepali flat,” which meant you would have to traverse up and down, up and down, through small valleys and across streams, to arrive back at the elevation you started. And so even on the easy side of the hike, I did my fair share of grumbling over tired legs and long days. And we didn’t even have the glory of standing in the rooftop of the world to look forward to any more.

Once you’ve been to the mountaintop, coming down is always a little bit of a letdown. This is true for no less than Jesus himself. In the Transfiguration, our story today, Jesus ascends a mountain to pray with his friends Peter, John, and James. While praying, he has a transcendent experience, in which his glory shines forth as he communes with Moses and Elijah. And then, when the scene is all but over, the voice of God booms down from heaven saying, “This is my Son, my Chosen; listen to him!” Peter is so stunned by the whole thing that he is ready to build some sort of monument right then and there. I’d say Jesus is having a pretty good day up on the mountain.

And then Jesus and his friends come down off the mountain, and they immediately run into a crowd clamoring for Jesus’ attention. A voice rises above the din, crying out for Jesus to heal his son, explaining that he asked the disciples but they could not do it. And Jesus, who has just had this beautiful holy moment, who has walked with Moses and Elijah, the pillars of the faith, who has stood on a mountaintop, been commended by the voice of God, Jesus gets cranky. “You faithless and perverse generation, how much longer must I be with you and bear with you?” Yikes! And it’s not even super clear who Jesus is talking to here, who he’s mad at. Is he rebuking the father for bothering him, or his disciples who couldn’t get the job done without him? Either way, Jesus is not a happy camper.

And look, I get it. He has just had a high point in his earthly life. I’m guessing in some ways this felt not unlike his baptism, this soaring feeling of communion with God and the saints, of seeing his purpose laid out, uplifted by those who have gone before him. It is hard to come down from those soaring moments into the earthy moments of real life.

I think we’re in a bit of a soaring moment today as a church. Shortly, we will baptize 4 people, and y’all, when was the last time we baptized 4 people on the same day in this church? It is a joy and a delight to mark God’s presence and work in their lives and this community through this sacrament. And then we will feast at God’s table in the sacrament of communion. Not to mention that if you look outside, there is an honest to goodness construction trailer now sitting on our lot, because finally, finally, the work we have waited for is beginning. All the planning and the work and the toil, the pruning and the dreaming, we are finally starting to see the fruit. Y’all, it is a good Sunday in the life of this church. This may not be the high point, but it is a high point.

But next week, we’ll be back to business as usual in worship. No baptisms, no communion, the start of Lent, which I know some of you aren’t that excited about if you’re being truly honest. And work may start and stop and start and stop on the building, and we will start to wonder again if it will ever actually finish. We will depart from the Lord’s table today as the unified body of Christ, and then we will remember all of our differences, our squabbles, the things that really bug us about one another. And then we, too, may start to grumble like Jesus, “How much longer do we have to bear with one another? How much longer until the work is done? How much longer until we are a bigger congregation, until the building is built, until everything is smooth sailing?” Friends, it is rough coming down from the mountain.

But do you know what Jesus does after he grumbles? He gets on with the business of the kingdom. He may have been feeling his humanity a little extra, but he nonetheless lived into the promises of his life and ministry. On the mountain top with Moses and Elijah, Luke tells us he discussed what he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem, that is his death and resurrection. At the bottom of the mountain, tired and cranky amongst the crowd, he rolls up his sleeves and lives into the promise of what he will accomplish in Jerusalem, a miracle that is a foretaste of his death and resurrection.

And so it is with us. We ought to savor days like this, days where the promises of God feel close at hand, where we can see the fruit of God’s blessing among us. And we should let these days be a reminder of what God is doing and will continue to do in this place. So that on the days when we are tired and cranky, when the work of God seems far off, when everything feels a little dingy and dusty and crowded, we too can roll up our sleeves and live into the promise of what God will accomplish, of Christ’s glorious resurrection and reign.

In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and shall be forever. Amen.