---
date: 2022-01-29
lectionary: year a
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 4]]"
tags:
  - "#compassion"
  - "#kingdom-of-god"
  - "#justice"
---
* Matthew's first major turn - here's the thesis for the rest of the year
	* Up until this point, we've heard a little of Jesus story as a child, and witnessing the earliest part of his ministry
	* Remember that the first statement he makes to begin his ministry is, paraphrased "Reconsider your ways, because God's Commonwealth is on its way"
	* And after he calls his disciples and begins his healing ministries, people were starting to follow him, and not from small distances either - literally hundreds of miles between the cities that are mentioned here as well as in other Gospels - the people of the community were following.
* I wonder what Jesus saw
	* And this well known, beloved text begins with a statement often overlooked: Jesus saw the crowd.
	* And it's clear as Matthew denotes later, who is not necessarily in the crowd are the clerics of the day - they're only interested when they begin to see the power shifting towards Jesus and away from the usual order of the day.
	* Instead, it would seem to be everyone else - the everyday people, the ones who are more apt to be considered expendable - the faceless crowd, the community.
	* And we'll see over again that Jesus has compassion for these folks: and this isn't just a "I feel bad," but a deep, visceral response - God's heart is moved to its human extent by the pain of those who drop everything and hope to be healed.
* Interesting then that from that pain of compassion, Jesus sees what he sees, and then teaches
	* And how we should wish that more churches heard this!  That the direction of Jesus' ministry was not for those already for those whom felt comfortable within the way things are... it's not for the folks already in the pews!
	* Session member's comment - it's always looking for who is outside, not quite there, hurting, ailing, broken, convinced that there isn't any good news... people certain that it's all just the same issues, problems, hurt and pain.  It's not that we don't worry about those on the inside, but should that be the goal, it ultimately hurts all of us.
* And the people learn that the Kingdom of Heaven is going to be much, much different
	* And this may be why we're not as apt to speak these truths: because a reconsideration of how things must be requires changes in head, heart, and hands.
		* We think about the world differently
		* Our hearts are moved more radically
		* And our hands work towards Christ's design
	* And if you've built something that works for you, well, it's hard to let that go, no matter how persuasive it is - a country club church sounds terrific for those who pass the test, but the everyone else just has to look from beyond the fences.
	* For who he saw
		* Because again, who is it for?  Who does Jesus see?  Who does Jesus respond to?
		* If Jesus Immanuel is forever with us, and forever changing the world, then the sight towards the ones wandering and hurting is the primary goal of repentance for those who have found a home.
	* Acknowledging their circumstances
		* What would it be like, I wonder, to hear Jesus acknowledge your pain, and tell you that what's coming will be new?
		* Especially, as, I imagine, these are new things being stated
		* Again, church, may we hear: our proclamations should be for those on the margins
		* This means that we cannot lull ourselves into thinking a type of genteel neutrality is sufficient.  That so long as advocate for "both sides" or something like that, we're doing the right thing.
			* Jesus makes it clear that there is a preference for seeking the Kingdom of Heaven.  That is worth advocating for.
			* Can it be achieved in multiple ways?  Of course!  That's the beauty of difference.  But unless it's in good faith for the flourishing of the traveling crowds who need healing, it's not worth giving it space.
* So how do we do this?  Well, the action has been revealed for a while, reminded to us by Micah
	* It isn't the big things, the showy things, the attention-seeking things - the prophets remind us that dramatic worship, big statements, self-aggrandizement hidden in theological purity, they're a waste.  God abhors it.
	* But, instead, daily tasks built on three things
		* Do Justice
			* Act in a way that is fair and consistent.  Don't preference simply out of convenience.
		* Love Kindness
			* Be unabashed in an unfailing kindness and devotion with those around us.
		* Walk Humbly
			* Live a live that is careful of another's direction.  This isn't not the pious humility that plagues churches... but instead, it's the wisdom to know that when we're headed on the wrong path, we work our way back towards the Trinity's path
* So what does this mean for us?
