# 02.19.23

* I've got this app on my phone - Timehop.
	* It shows pictures from my phone, Lindsey's phone, Twitter posts, Facebook and Instagram pictures, and it goes back over 15 years at times.
	* And I personally love the part of the day that I go back and review.
	* For instance, two years ago I have photos of the workshops we did as a church to think about what God is calling us to in the new building, and reminding ourselves of who we are and who we want to become.
	* There's great pictures of the kids as they're young.  I watch them grow up again every day.
* As we close out this series that started at Epiphany, it's interesting to notice that we almost end where we begin... it's almost like we have a Timehop moment here
	* Just as in the baptism, we witness God with Jesus, once again hearing that Jesus is God's beloved.
	* It's also again a reminder that Jesus is something more than good person and teacher, mere artifact, but someone transcendentally special.  This is doubled down by having two of the greatest leaders in the Hebrew tradition in Moses and Elijah with him.
* I'm sympathetic to the disciples... seems like they're trying to capture the moment... But, none of it happens to work out that way - no way to hold it to review it:
	* Can't get the tents put up - literally the best they could do to take a picture.
	* Moreover, Jesus is saying to not make this public until later... no tweet, no facebook post.
* And I also wonder about how Jesus feels in this moment.  He's starting to feel the impact of his ministry in good ways (many following him, healing others), but it also aware that there are consequences to his actions.  He's predicting that this will not end gently for him.  But, as any of us would need, he hears from God that he's loved, and that God's proud.  And yet, it drifts out as quickly as it seems to come in.
* When there are no easy way to record what is needed, how do we hold on?
	* In the end, it might not be about what we witness, but what we carry in our hearts.
	* We might not have the recording of hearing someone tell us that they're proud of us, or that they love us.  But there is a home for that pride and love within us, transcending the moment itself.
	* Those pictures and tweets can't ever tell the full story either.  One singular snapshot or post only gives minimal context, but it is the life and story lived out behind it that carries us.
	* Those heart moments act just as 2 Peter tells us - they're lights for us in darker places.
	* And so, while the story of what happened on the mountain, and all the stories in between will be told eventually, at the moment, it may have been wise just simply to let it connect to the heart.
* What heart work can we do as a community?  What can we carry, and in part be transfigured ourselves?
	* In part, I think some of it is to clear way between our moments and our hearts.
	* Let's take the pancake breakfast for instance.  Or the chili cookoff, or the children on Wednesday night, or the ESL class we now host on Monday.
		* So many of these can just be seen as moments - as pictures, as messages.
		* But what of them in our hearts?  Do we see them as moments where all the things that Jesus promises he'll do - to bring justice, turn the world around, are happening?
		* A place where everyone gathered is having their fill, learning, growing
		* We as a community tell others that they are beloved and that we are well pleased with them?
		* Do we hear God's joy with us as we eat today?  What if we tried that?
		* If Jesus truly is Immanuel, always near, then the act of hearts forward in moments connects us to him.
* In part, that's what we intend to explore in Lent this year - how are we clearing the stream to allow our hearts to be open?  Where are the spaces of experience that help us hold on?
