# 03.05.23

* Our streams can get muddied by the passing of distance
	* The kids and Telestrations
	* Or finding a source of drinking water - by nature, things will come into a stream and pollute it
* So we need to locate the source
	* It's why we try to avoid triangulation - go directly to a person if there's an issue, and not try to employ a second person as a go between
	* If you're trying to live off the grid, it'd be ideal to find a local source of water, because otherwise you're spending a lot of time having to treat what you find.
	* When we do or find direct sourcing, we're going to tend to stay there: the more we don't triangulate, the better we are.  People build communities over fresh, safe water sources.
	* So in our faith, which itself is a driving force, must have a space where there is a clean source of living water.  And should we find that, wouldn't we want to build our lives around it?
* Might be one of those obvious Sunday School answers that it's God
	* Of course, no shock, but God is the source of our living water, and it would be nice to get as close to the source as possible.
	* And it's human nature then that once we've found the source, we'll build around it.  We'll try to have it be usable and containable.
* But notice what happens in both our readings
	* GEN - when God speaks, God requires movement
		* It's not like Abram didn't have things going for him: he had a good life at the time.  Stability, security
		* Yet God called.  The source appeared to Abram.
		* And Abram got up and went.
	* MAT - when God speaks, God requires movement
		* It's not deja vu, you heard this text a couple weeks ago
		* But here's the same interesting issue: there's a moment where God speaks again - God's favor appears upon Jesus, a bright, flashing arrow for all concerned to see that Jesus is extension of God's source here on the earth.  Jesus is living water.
		* And then as soon as it happens, it's gone.  And then they're down the mountain
	* In both cases, the source moves, too.
		* God doesn't abandon Abram, and later Abraham.  God is with him throughout, and the promise we hear today is brought to fruition.
		* Jesus goes down the mountain, tells the disciples to keep hushed, because it seems there's still work to do until the end.
	* So, if we want to stay close to the source, we need to go what it goes.
* Should we stay, we will eventually find ourselves further away from the source
	* So our call is to follow the source, which is strange all considered: usually the cleanest sources come from a single point.
	* When we stop going, then we have to employ all sorts of other tools to try to get back to the source.
	* But, just like setting up far downstream, it's just going to become expensive, far more focused on maintenance, and likely still potentially to fail.
		* Interestingly enough, it's not hard to think of the church in this example.
		* Let's say there's a winning formula a church has - it's so easy to consider that they happened upon the source.  And maybe they do for a time
		* But what if the source moves?  What if the church ignores God's call?
		* It may work for awhile, but it may start to look more like .
			* Operational maintenance - a wastewater treatment plant: The church spends more of its time just trying to manage itself and less and less time asking where to find the source has moved.
			* The endgame of Telestrations: confusion, misunderstanding, no sense of what the source is at all.
		* And if churches can be that way, so can individuals.
* Not so with God.
