# 03.12.23

* The question reverberating out of these texts today is a question of "why?"  Why do we go follow where the source goes?
	* EXO: There's some real sympathy to be given to the Israelites.
		* Anytime we're caught in the wilderness journey when we're away from our home, it can begin to be discomforting.
		* Even more so here - they are lacking the basic needs that they had.
		* When we lack the basic supplies for our journey, we long for home.  Even if we forget what was at home.
		* For God's people, Egypt wasn't a place of true safety or comfort.  It was a place where they were enslaved and unsafe.  They cried out for freedom... but now, the allure of food and water is more meaningful than the promises of the source... so they ask "why"
	* In John - reading the beginning of the passage that isn't necessarily part of the lectionary passage, we see that John explains that Jesus _had_ to go through Samaria.
		* But why?  There was no geographical reason to go to Samaria.  At best, we could argue that it's a more direct path, but that's about it.
		* There was also conflict between the Jews and Samaritans, so there was no cultural reason to go.
		* But he _had_ to go.
* As we continue on our Lenten journey, it's worth continuing to ask ourselves what is more stubborn to remove to clear our streams.  Certainly, what's happening in these texts can be amongst the more tricky to clear.
	* Our comfort - how often do we develop habits, behaviors, ways of living that perhaps we know don't necessarily help us, but they provide us a comforting stability.
	* Those comforts can create our culture - we value certain things over others, certain people over others.  We build a way of living and build relationships with other like-minded people.
	* When we believe we have to wander from comforts and culture, we can find our trust diminished.  In both cases - the Israelites and disciples - we can see how they question what's happening. 
	* And while it may be easy to presume they're questioning their leader, I don't think it's that cut and dry.  Instead, I think it's a question about trusting God - why would God bring the Israelites into the wilderness?  Why would God bring the disciples and Jesus to Sychar?
* The answer in both cases here today is salvation.
	* In the case of the Israelites, God saves them - he provides them what they need in dramatic fashion.  Water from a rock!
	* Jesus is also providing this saving water to the Samaritans: first through the woman at the well, and then to the rest of the area of Sychar through the woman.
	* So therein lies an interesting question in return: what if no one had gone?
* So our working our of our salvation, our witnessing it in ourselves and others, looks a lot like discipleship - a relationship with God and others along a journey to head to the source.
	* The people of God needed to go: they had prayed for liberation.  Yet, the journey to the promise land wasn't easy.  Even when God promised to take care of the people, they needed to understand it.  Between the people of God and God, through Moses here: God hears the needs of God's people, and uses Moses to help satisfy those needs.  Now, relationships are strengthened, discipleship fostered.
	* Jesus builds a relationship with the Samaritan woman - interestingly enough without the disciples.
		* I wonder what the disciples would have said had they not gone to get Jesus food.
		* Jesus - we don't talk to Samaritans.  Jesus, why would you talk to someone with such a complicated history?
		* Jesus - why are you as a rabbi even talking to a woman?
		* All of those things were reasonable customs for the disciples to adhere.
	* But, look at what happens - all of those transgressive actions lead to the good news being shared - and Jesus shows that there are many, many others who desire the same (the harvest is ready!).
	* So, again, we see what happens with discipleship and relationship - when heading to the source of the waters, God is there.  Relationships change.  People already disciples of Jesus see the world changing; new disciples are found in unlikely others.
	* It's no overstatement to say that there are miracles on the other side
* So why? Why would we go follow the source?
	* Because I think in our hearts, we truly want to see miracles.  We want to know that all of the process of maintaining a clear, life-giving stream close to the source is worth the effort.  Otherwise, why not just stay in the comfort of what we know.
	* As we talked about last week, the source will continue to go where it's needed - and that will include the wilderness, and Samaria - the places that are discomforting, unfamiliar, and perceived as hostile to us and the journey we're on.
	* And so we could stay where we're all at - but have you ever witnessed water stagnant, no longer tied to a source of replenishment?  Of oxygen?  It is poison, it is unsafe, and over time disappears.
	* But should we decide instead to see that the why is an invitation to discipleship, we witness the bubbling up of miracles - of water from rocks, of people being known who thought their whole lives they could not be known.  Of others seeing and believing themselves.
