# 03.19.23

* Turbid: cloudy, opaque, thick with suspended matter.
	* We see this a lot after storms as a lot gets in the water that isn't ordinarily in there.
	* A crystal clear stream, when someone steps in it, can also stir up sediment.
* Our family has had another experience of turbidity as well:
	* A gurgling toilet became a clogged toilet.
	* Then, suddenly, in the morning, it flowed from toilet to bathtub.
	* And, as you might imagine, it's been a gross mess to try to figure out what the issue is.  The shopvac's been running, auger's running into just all sorts of grossness.
	* We feel like we're going blind - in spite if cleaning out as much as we could, there's so much suspended into the water as to make it impossible to see.
	* We've gotten as far as we could - the water is receding a little at a time - but it's going to take someone outside of our family to clear this up now.
* Our gospel passage today is a turbid situation - consider our cast in this story:
	* The Rest of the Crowds
		* The crowds in particular seems to be stirring up the stream as often as they can
			* Disciples - did someone sin to cause this?
			* Neighbors - are you really the person you say you are? 
			* Are you really blind?
			* The crowds scare the parents even - if they confess that this was Jesus, they'll be kicked out!  It's to the point where in order to preserve themselves, they deflect to their son, who is old enough to reason for himself
			* They call Jesus a sinner.
		* Over time, the conversation devolves into not the miraculous, but the muddied mundane - who is a sinner and who isn't.  They aren't looking for a solution to the problem here, but rather preservation.  After a certain point, it just seems like there's no way to see how this will be restored to clear.
	* The Blind Man
		* It is interesting to consider here that the blind man should be the center of attention for this passage.  After all, he's the one who is being healed of his blindness
		* But, in reality, he only seems to be a foil; object rather than subject, and always seeming within context of someone else... he doesn't ever seem to be independent of someone else's thoughts. 
		* Whether that's authorial intent or otherwise, it does raise an interesting question for us about those around us who are not like us.
		* But, even in spite of all that, he now sees.
	* Jesus
		* For his part, too, Jesus seems relatively muted as well
		* But do you notice - Jesus spends little time with the issue of "sin"
			* In fact, it's only in reference to refute the crowd - disciples included.
			* And when Jesus does respond to the issue, it's in reference to being able to show God's grace.
				* That's a fascinating takeaway, isn't it?  That all the time the crowd here will point to personal sin, but that's irrelevant to Jesus.
				* Instead, Jesus argues here that the sin is what we miss.
					* Love the end of the passage: "we surely can't be the blind ones, right?"
					* Jesus indicates, yeah, you are.
					* After all, if the definition of sin: hamartia, to miss the mark, is accurate, who truly are the ones missing the mark in this passage?
	* What we've witnessed is what might have started as a bit of kicking up some sediment becomes a full on clog with mess overflowing... the actual consequences of sin.
		* The self-inflicted turbidity of the stream of the crowd's stream
		* The consequences are clear: fractured relationship: both Jesus and the man are banished from the community.
		* It's almost as though Jesus the master plumber came in and said "well, I can tell you how to fix these pipes and this clog" and they said, no, it makes no sense to us, so we'd rather live as we are.  And that'll only get anyone so far.
		* What must it have been like for the blind man to have been driven out of his community - his lifeline, his stability - simply because he can now see?
			
			* What he might have offered the community!  How he could have helped them rethink their way of living!
			
			* What would the community there have gained from his presence?
				* Of course, it would have required the cognitive dissonance of clarity.
				* It would have had to take an admission of needing a change of heart.  It's interesting to think if I just spent the next month constantly trying to draino and auger my way out of this clog because I've convinced myself it's the only way and no plumber is going to figure this out what the consequences might be?
					* I'm literally without one bathroom, which diminishes our quality of life
					* But it also raises the potential for me and my family to be sick.  How often do we raise the concerns of that after a flood or a storm coming through the city?
					* When communities prefer to live in the turbidity and mess of sin that ultimately leads to the solution being rejected, it's a poison.
* The reality is that it's always tempting to stay in the mess we create.  How we avoid it is a willingness to repent and refocus
	* The violation of an inclusive community that demonstrates God's grace and miracle working in lives without the need to label it sin is our goal.
	* What Jesus tells them in the chapter following is a reminder that he is the good shepherd.
		* PS 23: We hear that in the midst of what could be turbid circumstances - valley of shadow of death, etc - that there is comfort, steadiness, support, a way to settle the sediment.
			
* We are steadily making our turn from Lent and into Easter - this journey will change.  We need to look at Jesus and the way he heals as a way to continue to settle our streams, lest we lose sight.
