# 04.16.23

* A lot of you know by now that I like to get to the church early in the morning on Sunday to take care of my final sermon prep
	*  But often, before I actually head into the church, I'll take a drive around the square and downtown to a couple of the bridges. 
	* It's a chance for me to pray and take time to reflect before starting Sunday. 
	* Last week wasn't any different, save for one thing... on my way, I got stopped by your favorite San Marco annoyance and mine - the San Marco train 
	* This is the picture I took, which was even funnier.  Not a lick of horns or anything.  So close to the church yet blocked.  I thought how appropriate it was for Easter - the train which you are seeking is no longer here. After a couple more minutes, I truly began to wonder if it was coming at all.
	* Now, eventually it did, and I still got the church on time, but it still made me curious about why it took so long - other than just to be obnoxious, I guess.
* Doubt is a common part of our life experience.  And I want to try today to reflect more on what might be good about doubt, and not just mark it up to something we need to avoid, because it would seem that if we're going to start off our post Easter season with a passage on doubt, there's something worth exploring.
* Not that I have a whole lot of scientific basis for this, but I would argue that doubt increases as a result of two questions that arise base on a situation: What is the likelihood of this thing actually occurring, and, What will the impact on my life actually be?
	* You can see how we can almost create a square here of possibility, and it opens up to us a couple different understandings of doubt as well:
		* I didn't doubt too much this week the garbage man picking up my garbage.  And even if he didn't, it's not the end of the world - low impact, low likelihood - no real doubts.
		* I might occasionally, especially when it hits a half a billion, go ahead and play the lottery.  But I've got my doubts about whether it'll actually happen - high impact, low likelihood - doubts.
		* When the San Marco train was not coming, I didn't decide to just run through the tracks anyway, because more often than not, that train is going to roll through, and it's going to cause grave harm - high impact, high likelihood - doubts
		* low impact, high likelihood - Gosh, there are so many of these: whether my monitor will turn on when I work, whether my shoes will fit right when I put them on.  Our lives traffic in these low impact, high likelihood situations, so we largely don't doubt them occurring.
	* So doubt, then, seems bound by impact, of course, and moderated by likelihood, but we can also see how doubts can temper us from positive and negative occurrences - in this case, winning the lottery or getting run over by a train. 
	* Interesting, too, that something positive high impact, high likelihood might cause doubts.  I think for instance about my choice to have bariatric surgery.  That certainly was a high impact, high likelihood event: if I had the surgery, something significant was going to happen in my life.  And even though for me it has led to very positive outcomes, I absolutely had my doubts, and I was glad it took the months it did before we had to proceed.
	* Which all then makes me wonder if when we're talking about doubt, we're talking about recognizing how events shape us.  Doubt, then, is just our emotional metronome, keeping us steady with an inertia of balance.  Thought another way, doubt is a boundary for each of us to protect our hearts to be too warmed or too cooled when faced with a series of incomplete circumstances.
* This is also why as every year goes by, I want to validate Thomas more.
	* First, let's just get out the of the way that the other 11 disciples did have the benefit of being able to see Jesus ahead of time.  So it seems a bit of an unfair read to just simply peg the doubt on Thomas alone.
	* But let's really think about what proof of the resurrection would mean: if Jesus came back from the dead, then it would mean the prophecies were fulfilled, and Jesus truly is who he said.  It means that death can be overcome, and that even when the powerful try, they will not be able to put down God.
	* You can see that if we lay that on our square here, we can see how that's a high impact, low likelihood kind of event.  And to constantly succumb to the hope of high impact, low likelihood situations unfulfilled seems to me to lead a whole lot into despair.
	* Thomas, then, to protect his own internal metronome, needed to see some kind of proof in order to let his doubt subside and allow the impact to affect him fully. And we can see what happens afterwards - Thomas allows himself the joy of seeing Jesus again.
* This all leads us to an interesting issues here - what of belief?
	* Because really, is doubt an absence of belief?  I don't think so.  I believe in Nevada, and I've never been there to see it myself.
	* I also believe in the bright future of this church, and we've not gotten all the way there yet.
	* But, instead, I wonder if it's about the interplay of belief and doubt that helps us determine where our hearts will go.
		* Think about it this way: let's say you're looking for evidence about the bright future of the church, and you're looking for the signs.  You could look at last week and base everything on attendance alone, and feel really good about the future.  Or, you could have looked at Good Friday, and based on it on attendance alone, and worry we're a week away from shuttering the doors. 
		* However, you could also continue to see this interplay as lifetime of understanding and adjustment that shapes us.
			* You can look over the last few years and see steady growth all around and that should give us comfort for a bright future, but still perhaps have some doubts because it hasn't been fully completed.
			* I know not to run past the San Marco train because over the last couple years I've learned it unfortunately highly consistent, reliable, and ready to cause problems.
			* I also have learned through a few half billion dollar lotteries that it's not terribly likely I'll ever win.
			* It's why I think Jesus frames belief the way he does - the process of coming to believe just simply is.  It's rare we'll have moments of Jesus magically appearing and showing off his wounds.  Instead, it's living, redeveloping our boundaries of doubt, and allowing ourselves to be permeable.
* So what will we do with another eastertide?  A season of discovering the resurrection?  Especially if we won't get the luxury of seeing Jesus with our own eyes, but instead hearing by extension.
	* For the next few weeks, I wonder if we would well as a community to learn our boundaries of doubt, and to find where we need to explore how we are permeable, and what it may take.
	* For now, the good news may just simply be that again, if we're starting here in eastertide, we don't need to be concerned that doubt is somehow outside of the experiences of a faith journey.
	* But let's journey a little further and see what God meets us.
