---
date: 2023-06-04
lectionary: year a
bible:
  - "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Matthew/Matt 28]]"
  - "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/2 Corinthians/2 Cor 13]]"
  - "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Genesis/Gen 1]]"
  - "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Psalms/Ps 8]]"
title: 
tags:
  - "#trinity"
  - "#iconography"
  - "#relationship"
  - "#community"
---

# 06.04.23

* My favorite icon is Andrey Rublov's icon, entitled "Hospitality of Abraham."
	* It was created somewhere roughly in the 1420s.
	* I want to read a commentary by Aaron Rosen, professor of Religion and Visual Culture at Wesley Theological Seminary because it hints at what I love so much about it.
		* Andrey Rublyov’s icon is a mystery. Theories abound about its date, patron, provenance, and even creator. It is only since the twentieth century that the icon’s original paint has been visible. For centuries, the icon was covered by a revetment (or _riza_), a protective metal plate attached by nails, whose holes are still visible in the wood. Moreover, the icon was continually ‘renewed’ by periodic repainting, a practice that brushes against the grain of contemporary Western notions of authenticity. But beneath all these layers of ambiguity lies an even more challenging theological enigma: who are these angelic figures, and what do they represent?
		* For centuries, Jewish and Christian commentators have puzzled over how to interpret the three strangers who arrive at Abraham’s tent. To the first-century Jewish philosopher Philo, this trio represented God, accompanied by his powers, while to the rabbis, God appeared with an angelic coterie. In the eyes of the second-century Christian writer Justin Martyr, the story revealed an early—albeit anonymous—entry of Christ into human history. Two centuries later, St Augustine would deliver a classic interpretation, reading the three visitors as representations of the Holy Trinity.
		* Rather than resolving competing interpretations, Rublyov’s icon entertains them. On the one hand, the three figures’ different gestures and garb encourage individual identifications, with the central figure often interpreted as Christ. As Rowan Williams notes, however, the figures’ identical faces and interlocking gazes might be more expressive of the _dynamic_ of the Trinity, illustrating its ever-flowing interdependence.
		* Sometimes lost in such interpretations is the character of Abraham. Standing in front of this massive icon in the Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow, I remember recognizing that these angels were not missing an Abraham; they were simply waiting for me—the viewer—to take up that role. Was I called to humbly serve the angels or perhaps the icon itself? What hospitality could I offer before this sublime sight?
* Trinity Sunday's goal is never to figure out the Trinity itself.
	* To do so invites detachment from it.
	* We become the observer of an object.
	* This may be why it's hard to figure it out - perhaps the whole point was to invite engagement.
	* This is, in part, what is so engaging about the Rublyov icon: just as Rosen said, we find ourselves not missing Abraham but being asked to assume the role. In the same way, there is an unmistakable space right in the middle to join.  Instead of offering hospitality, as Rosen said, I want to provide that it's a chance for mutual hospitality: of offering all to all.
* To take up the invitation to engage, to have a personal relationship - to join in with the Trinity - that opens us differently to the passages today.
	* We're not as concerned with the machinations of how the earth was created - no more than while we might enjoy knowing about Malliard reactions and the effect of low temperature cooking on the proteins in BBQ, how smoke enters into the sinew, that is a paltry reward to eating it.  Sure, the big bang, evolution, and young Earth - all sound great.  But have you just experienced the beauty?  Have you heard yourself witnessing the leaping greenly spirits of trees and true blue dream of sky - all that is natural and infinite and yes?
	* It opens us up to the relationship offered in the gospel as well
		* What are disciples but companions at the Trinity's table?
		* Then, to baptize: to invite to the table with all of the Trinity, refreshed and redeemed, is simply offering the invitation.
* As we leave this time and head towards ordinary time, I wonder what it's like to make this our theme - engagement and not observation. What if we joined at the Trinity's table?
	* It's nice, then, to have this day as it is: to gather together, to enjoy each other's company – the fruit of our labor, anticipating closing a significant chapter of our collective story and heading into a new one.
	* What if, then, we saw the BBQ as the Blessing itself? That here, today, we are with the Trinity again?
	* Is the time capsule we're also preparing a reminder of us at the Trinity's table? The pictures and texts we'll put in can't fully explain what we experienced, but they are an invitation to those who will reopen it 50 years from now. And, excitingly, it will be a chance for those folks to be at the table with us.
	* So I want to invite you after service today, as you eat and are together, to think of what you're doing as a blessing, as an invitation to gathering with the Trinity - to engage, taste, see, worship, and be discipled.
	* It's there that we might unravel the mystery of the Trinity in the liturgical movements of our community.
