# 06.18.23

INTRO

* Tiger days: like eye of the tiger is your alarm that day
* One of two things happen on those days: either I knock my stuff out, or I’m knocked out. No in between
* The extremes also lead to extremes of emotion- feel really good on good days, really bad feel real bad
* Not sure we’re constantly built for those kind of extremes - I find after awhile, I start to seek the good days like a drug, and the bad days feel like a hangover.

SCRIPTURE

* Mt
	* The disciples are having an eye of the tiger day here, too.
	* Can you imagine waking up, and having Jesus say "okay, your turn now"?
	* And I appreciate Jesus' encouragement here: some folks are gonna love it, some hate it - shake off the bad, focus on the good.
	* But, c'mon, you can't tell me the disciples we're jostling for results?  Who got the most saves?  Who's the top soul getter for the coming kingdom?
		* I have to figure that bc we're not so different now
		* Think about how many conversations we hear about church, about faith, and they can be reduced down to numbers?
		* Our faithfulness, our viability come down to what butts are in the pews, and what the bank account looks like.
		* By that measure, then, we gauge our success.  And, perhaps more painfully, the lack of any of those things indicates our failure.  The collective measure then becomes our identity by which we measure up each other.
* We might be able to start finding a response through Ecc
	* Often Attributed to Solomon
	* We're all so familiar with C 3 about there being a time for everything
	* But really, that's the whole thesis of the book itself
	* Sol says over and over that he's seen it all, had it all, but the "all" isn't what it's cracked up to be
	* So instead, the refrain is "eat, drink, enjoy the fruits of your labor, and realize the world is pretty absurd"
	* Which might be why we don't pry its depths except at a funeral - it's a comfort then when we have to acknowledge that outside forces rock our worlds, but we are built as people (especially Western Americans) to eye of the tiger everything, and we celebrate the ones that seem to knock it out in life
	* So there really might be something to what Ecc is saying beyond death: life is absurd and uncontrollable.

APPLICATION

* Just beyond out Ecc reading today, the sage says the following: I’ve seen it all in my brief and pointless life—here a good person cut down in the middle of doing good, there a bad person living a long life of sheer evil. So don’t knock yourself out being good, and don’t go overboard being wise. Believe me, you won’t get anything out of it. But don’t press your luck by being bad, either. And don’t be reckless. Why die needlessly? It’s best to stay in touch with both sides of an issue. A person who fears God deals responsibly with all of reality, not just a piece of it.
* Want to offer that another way to consider this is we celebrate the “is”
* It’s not that goal setting or pushing ourselves is wrong, but perhaps instead if we place our identity in the results, we’re going to chase that and miss the joy of being.
* Mt: can read it from the external, but what of the internal?
	* Becuase, really, that's where Matthew goes, too.  We read nothing of the results.  We don't know how the conversations went, we don't know the final score.  We just know they went out.
	* Jesus is asking the disciples to engage in the act, irrespective of its outcome
	* Good outcomes will happen, but so will bad, yes.
	* But their identity should not be tied to the outcome, just the act
	* They're dealing responsibility with the reality
	* Detaches them from things they can't control - which then solely rests their identity into identity as Christ's disciples who just are living out what they're called to be.
* Taking it from that perspective, we might be able to unhide joy as we just focus on the "is."
	* Every moment we are responding to God, heading down the path to wherever we find ourselves going, we have a chance to learn, to grow, to just be.
	* And then, our indexing of failure and success isn't what happens necessarily, but in the attentiveness to faithfulness to the now.
	* This is an important key, more important that I think we give it credit for... it'll starts to open up passages about considering even the bad things in life joy that we'll dive into more fully later.

CONCLUSION

* Bariatric Surgery
	* Curious if y'all notice any differences?
	* Right now, I've just about hit triple digits in losing pounds, and I've lost the equivalent inches around of an NBA player
	* It's been nice to recieve all sorts of comments too.
	* But, admittedly, it's been a bit of surprise experience in my heart, and far more a change in my own identity.
	* What conversations I have with the guy on the left really matters for the future of the guy on the right.
	* And so, what I've realized I need to do is become an observer.  After all, this is a once in a lifetime experience, and so better to find joy in each moment.
	* What I've found is that all of these moments, the guy on the left and right are companions with each other.  They had their experiences, made their choices, and did the best they could.  My identity isn't bound into results as much, but instead being.  And there, I've found a lot more joy than I did when I was fussing about how I failed before, or how I navigate being a different person now.  I just am.
* The church
	* We as a church are having similar moments too, y'know.
	* There's a temptation for those of us who have been here long enough to remember is to pine for the past.
	* I also think there's a temptation for those of us who are new and don't remember to move furiously towards the future.
	* But both - and the measures of each - miss the present moment of is, and steal the joy of the process.
