# 07.09.23

* On my way down to Montreat, I had enough time to get into a couple audio books.  The first one I listened to was James Clear's Atomic Habits.  There's a lot of great stuff in it, but one thing in particular had struck me.
	* We focus too much on the things we need to _do_ as opposed to an identity that we _are_.  We focus on outcomes - I want to lift 200 pounds, or I want to play guitar in a band, as opposed to saying that your identity is one of an athlete or one of a musician.
	* Moreover, AH makes an argument that are likely to do better if we take a 1% approach: just a little bit better every day.
	* And the more we do those things, the more we're fulfilling our identity, the fuller and richer our lives are.
* If you're here, or you're watching us, I'm fairly certain that you identity in part as a Christian, or you're at least curious about it.
* And if we identify and want to create the habits of a faithful person, we want to be able to have it be as full and enriching as possible.  That's where the joy of this journey will be.
* Here, in these two similar passages, we have a relatively straightforward formula.
* And I want to break down the Jas passage in particular, because I think it opens up a lot for us.
	* "whenever you face" - the word there is more like falling into a situation that isn't all that great.
	* "trials" - examination.  Checking out.
	* What's interesting is that both of these words, over time, also were used on occasion medically: so we might also think of this similarly as a drug trial.  Circumstances arise that put us in a situation were the efficacy our faith is tested to determine its effectiveness.
	* What's even more interesting is that this is strengthened further by this idea here in Jas of "testing."  This word is all about testing is something is counterfeit, making sure that it's truly genuine.
	* When we are able to find what's the genuine article with our faith, it lasts - just like if a drug passes through a trial and to market: it can save lives.  It can rework issues that are unhealthy in us.
	* And when that's all done, Jas uses two different words that mean perfection: the first one meaning more that it has reached its maturity (telos), and the other that is whole.
* Now that's interesting to think about: if we identify as Christians, and want to develop the habits of a faithful person, even when it's hard, it's ultimately a chance to determine if we have a placebo faith. 
* And that placebo faith - the one we have curated, will fail us in these times of test.
* The question here, then, should be are we people who _do_ faith, or people who identify with faith?
	* Because if we're just people who focus on the outcomes of our faith, well, then, the second that it seems too hard to work out, or too flimsy, we'll likely to throw in the towel.  And I think we might find reasons to blame it on a lot of things like we do when we don't go to the gym or don't practice our piano or take your pick... (we need this kind of music, this kind of preaching, this kind of programming, etc) what we're not apt to do is say to ourselves simply if we're focused on outcomes and not identity?
	* If we move towards identifying as a person of faith, we might start asking better questions about what matters and what doesn't, what builds and what tears down - what are the habits of a Spiritual person?  love, joy, peace, forebearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control... focused not on doing things because they're the law, but becuase we're moved by the Spirit to do it...
	* And as James seems to allude to us, this testing leads to perfection, but it isn't instant.  If perfection were only described as "complete," then we may question if it should come right away.  But he also mentions that perfection in the sense of "telos" - which is a word we still use to desribe an ultimate end or aim: a final cause according to Aristotle.  So we have the grace and opportunity to just move 1%... a little each time, each day.
