# 07.16.23

* Imagine that each of us is a string on the world's piano.
	* We often try to, ideally, find ways to resonate with the world.  And when that happens, it would seem, our world becomes enjoyable chords and progressions.  And indeed, I imagine there may be majors and minors, but they still resonate.
	* But, yes, there are times that we might find ourselves steadily becoming less resonant.  Things begin to jar us, the volumes aren't right, and it becomes a mess.
	* Our solution is often to try to advance: we might try to find ways to have more resources or status - perhaps more volume or higher range on the world's piano, or we add more instruments.  Yet, somehow, this doesn't seem to work well - most happiness research indicates that folks don't tend to get happier as their resources increase and they have to spend more time accumulating them.  A cacophony is a cacophony, regardless of the number of instruments or their arraignment.
	* Hartmut Rosa, a German sociologist who wrote a book on this idea of resonance, says it this way: "Life is good not (or at least not necessarily) when we are rich in resources and opportunities, but rather, however banal and even tautological this may at first sound when we love it.  When we have almost a libidinal connection to it - it here meaning the people, places, tasks, ideas, objects, and implements that we encounter and with which we interact."
		* A couple of things to hold from this quote
			* Yes, it does always seem that simply saying "when we love it" is redundant and obvious saying: until we try to apply it, of course.
			* And the use of libidinal was interesting.  It is related to libido.  But perhaps rather than dismiss this as saying solely sexual, I wonder if we thought about this as something more like a deeper drive and attraction... that is, almost magnetic.
* I think Paul also understood this as he unfolded today's last piece of our unhiding joy series.
	* Philippians is a letter in part that's unique because he's not trying to attend to a crisis with a fledgling church as he was in Galatians or Colossians.  Still, instead, he's expressing his joy and appreciation for this new community as they come to understand how they should follow Jesus.
	* When we pick up, Paul is mentioning to be on watch from obligating to something completely unnecessary - here, as was often the case in these times, the idea that one was required to be circumcised to be part of this growing Christ movement.  This made particular sense when you consider this group of believers still thought themselves a sect of Judaism.  This seems like an easy way to add to these folks' resources regarding God.
	* Yet Paul argues otherwise: these trappings were unnecessary: that Christ Jesus alone would provide the resources and the resonance for them.
	* Paul supplies his resume for everyone to see; honestly, it's impressive.  And it's not the first time he's done this with folks: Paul routinely returns to his credentials throughout his letters.
	* But he also almost always then follows it up with a turn:
		* Here in Phillippians, he explores this turn with a lot of language alluding to finances:
			* If there was any profit to his credentials, he ultimately became a loss... and more than that, Paul argues, but it came to his detriment once he discovered Christ.  And he claims, his entire life - all that he has been, in comparison, has zero value.  Paul argues here that he was willing to suffer the losses - incur the fines of all the things he could tout, because fundamentally, they were "rubbish"... but that's too genteel of a word here.  While I can't mention the word here in church, our best way to explain it is a far more vulgar description of animal excrement.
			* Now, we can appreciate Paul's hyperbole here, but let's not ignore that part of the reason that he's in the position he is in, gets to write the letters he does, and have the authority to say these things is undoubtedly, in part due to the credentials he sees as now worthless.
		* So perhaps more helpful for us today, instead of focusing on the minimization of Paul's life, we can focus on the infinite value of Christ and, perhaps more generally, the Trinity altogether.
* This is the thread that runs throughout our series: Abraham and Sarah, the disciples going out without guarantee of success, the Samaritan with the man on the side of the road, people in the midst of trial: what is fundamental to it all is seeing that how we find our joy is by reindexing our valuation of the resources we pursue as a means to find resolved resonance, and instead see how we match our vibration - our tone - with God's.
	* That resonance, I believe, if we let it resound in us, might very well be something so profoundly instinctual and in our deepest selves that it may reflect as though it was libidinal - magnetic.  I'd argue that's because it is core to our identity - it's who we've been created to be from the beginning.  And we can sense that: ask yourself who you thought were the champions of their faith.  It's likely not that they were the most erudite or most accomplished, or most learned.  It's probably because they exuded a magnetism about their walk with God that was unavoidable to be drawn into.
	* We can then hear again Rosa's quote here: when we are centering ourselves on the Trinity's love, suddenly, the people, places, tasks, ideas, objects, and implements that we encounter and with which we interact take different forms.
	* Every effort we attempt, or every time we avoid trying without locating that resonance, becomes a cacophony, or, to quote Paul, a bunch of dung.
	* But, by being able to, in our hearts, be willing to be so honest as Paul was, we might then find the joy we so badly want to see and share in limitless abundance.
* How might we do this?
	* It helps to see where Paul ends all of this
		* ...not having a righteousness from the law
		* ...but instead, righteousness from God based on faith.  (where the resonance comes).
	* Asking ourselves unceasingly - how are we living in a way where it's faithful resonance... the examples of joy found throughout this series - there's where it is!
	* And, perhaps, are we willing to see how worthless the rest is?  That's easier said than done.
	* But consider the difference.
