# 08.06.23

Barth Quote: "Take Your Bible and take the newspaper and read both... but interpret newspapers from your Bible." - Time Magazine, May 1966

* Of course, now we can add so many more forms of information to newspapers, too: social media, etc.
* And there are quite a few passages that help us think about the importance of this idea:
	* Genesis 1-2 - When created in the garden, we're meant to be stewards of the world.  That includes understanding and interpreting it.
	* 2 Tim - All Scripture is God-breathed and suitable for equipping people
	* John - We're mindful of Pilate asking Jesus, "What is truth."
	* But, given that it's sermon madness let's try to look at it from a couple of different angles.
* I Chronicles
	* This tiny passage squeezed into a part of the Bible we tend to overlook helps us again see why knowing what's happening is essential.
		* This story is situated right as David intends to challenge Saul for the throne of Israel. 
		* And here we have this small tribe - the tribe is Issachar.  They're not mentioned much, but here, they carry a unique purpose - they're people who know and understand the times.
		* And interestingly, it's not just one type of knowledge, but two:
			* Knowing and understanding are two different things:
			* Knowing = our hearts, our instincts
			* understanding = our intellectual grasp
			* So together, it creates interpretation.
		* When we consider the "policy" moves here - of a new king, it helps us see that our ability to know and understand the work carries paramount importance for the creation of God in the world.  There is value to advisement, interpretation, or counsel.
* Luke
	* Now, that ability, that interpretation, that meaningful gift from God might be easy to get to our heads.
	* Perhaps we see it as a leg up on the world.
	* The Gospel passage today lays out an interesting example of this:
		* Here, Jesus presents us with two people - a Pharisee and a tax collector.  Both of our characters have in-depth knowledge - they're both Hebrew, and they're both observant.  Their position is different: one is a priest, and the other is a tax collector, who would have been untrusted and disliked by his peers... looked at as a co-conspirator with the occupying Roman government.
		* And here, the Pharisee lets what he knows be known: he's not like anyone else.  He uses his understanding to build his life so that he orders it well.
		* The tax collector, however, uses his knowledge to be convicted.
		* And what's also noticeable is how these two points of view leave the two men separated from each other: the Pharisee - who is alone, by the way - is praying, likely towards the middle of the temple: he's claiming lots of space for himself.  Yet the tax collector is far off: he doesn't see himself worthy of taking up space in the temple.
		* Jesus makes it clear, however, what the consequences are for this point of view: our knowledge and understanding should drive us toward humility.
* It's not a far hop, skip, or jump to see how our ability to know and understand, to interpret the world through Scripture, can have far-reaching implications depending on whether we see it as something of pride or humility.
	* A posture like the Pharisee creates conflict - that we are right, that we get it all, and that we should be prideful about it creates all sorts of pain and separation: that somehow, because of who we are and what we know, we're better than the folks whom we determine are not eligible for the center of our modern temples: those who are greedy, who deviate from our standards of righteousness, adulters... and the ones we call out who we believe embody those deviations like the Pharisee did the tax collector.  And, for goodness sake, has the church gone through that throughout history.
	* Yet a posture of the tax collector - that knowledge and interpretation can lead to conviction - leads to what Jesus says is "justification" - a word in Greek that deals with being made right - to take up the cause of justice or be vindicated.  That perspective might not feel as good, and it adds vulnerability.  It might also mean that we find ourselves unable to be the center and instead find ourselves far off in the shadows, but it also means that we're where others who have been pushed to the margins need to hear of vindication.
* And so it seems, at least through this lens, that interpreting the newspaper through Scripture might require vulnerability and conviction that leads us to pursue God's vindicating justice.
* Our task then is not to shout about how right we are but to see how we can help others know how the texts convict us of our brokenness and turn to God in our hearts and others.
* I wonder what a world of interpreting tax collectors might look like - a world of people in the margins supporting and seeking God's righteousness together - looking at the world, imagining better.
