# 09.17.23

* Forgiveness might be one of the toughest things we have to do as people.
* We should just acknowledge that up front.  If you've ever been in a position where someone has wronged you, especially greviously, to have to say that someone is forgiven is almost impossible.
* I often think of some of the biggest tragedies that people may commit to one another - violent acts resulting in the loss of life.  We are almost shocked at times to see someone forgive that perpetrator.
* So often, I wonder if it's because it becomes perceived as weakness - that people who have forgiven something too tragic cannot bear to carry the vengeance that we might think is part of the justice being meted out by a crime.
* It runs deeper than that: the word here in Matthew that's used about forgivness: apheimi, started as a word that meant basically to drop or throw something.  Over time, and in the NT, it starts to become a willingness to just give something away.
* In the case of forgivness, then, what's that thing we're throwing away?  What are we willing to cancel or remit?
	* Look at the story Jesus tells here:
		* Our first slave has a monstrosity of a debt to clear - which is in all likelihood how he got enslaved in the first place.  To imagine he'd ever be able to pay off that debt is unimaginable.
		* And as hard as it is for us to hear today, in that time, the King would have been within his rights to sell those people and everything they own in order to make amends.  He holds the rights to that individual and everything they own
		* But in an act of mercy, he throws the debt out - he is free.  The debt that he owned the King now no longer has any power over him.
		* And I wonder if there might be a little sympathy here due to our now freed friend.  What how would you feel if you knew that a punishment, rightfully administered, was finally lifted? What kind of liberating power must be in that feeling!
		* However, the feelings of sympathy stop when he decides to instead exact revenge on someone else.
		* And it's interesting to note that what causes this be brought to the king is not the slave that was the target of the forgiven man's violence - it was the community witnessing this violence.  They, moved to grief by what happened, told the King what occurred.
		* Now, clearly, in a frightening end to the parable, we see that the forgiveness is revoked... and from the amount he originally owed, likely for the rest of his life.
	* See, there's two things at play here that I think if we want to be better at forgiveness, we might do well to heed from this parable.
		* Hypocrisy.
			* The first man was forgiven of so much, and then fails to see the bigger picture.  And so often, when words fall out of our mouths of being forgiven and yet we withhold that forgiveness to someone else, no matter the size of the debt, we've stumbled into hypocracy.
			* And without fail, when we find ourselves being outwardly hypocritical, others will see.  We can hear the famous Ghandi quote about Christians: he loves our Jesus, but isn't so sure about Christians.
			* However, this doesn't mean we too can't seek forgiveness for our hypocracy - just as we confess our broknessness weekly and know God gives grace, we know God too will offer that grace.
			* And I think this story ended the way it did because the freed man seemed to have no moment where he changed his mind - repented of his brokenness, which leads me to the second point
		* Power - and this is perhaps why forgiveness is so darn hard to do.
			* The way I see it, this ability to hold a sin in judgement and choose to execute forgiveness or vengeance might be the closest thing we come to having the power of God Godself.
			* And when we have that power in our hands - feeling liberated from our own ways we need forgiven, well, we can become drunk on it.  We want to feel the type of power that can send someone into a prison for what they've done.  And certainly, if the wrong was so egregious, so wrong, we might feel a relief from meting out the punishment as see befits the crime - on our timeline, in our way.
			* By attempting to wield power, we once again forget ourselves - our own blind spots, our own ways that we have needed forgiveness.
			* We also see how in the end, that power does nothing but cause pain.  And not just for the two, but for the whole community.  I want to believe that the one who attacked by the freed slave was set free from his debtors prison by the king... but we're not given that satisfaction in the text.  As a result, we might want to write both conclusions on our hearts - that yes, justice was done, but also perhaps that the consequences of using the power of judgement and withholding forgiveness destroyed two lives.  Any of us who have held onto a grudge or have had a grudge held against us for too long knows how this can happen.
			* So it would seem that the lengths that Jesus goes to warn of us of the consequences of forgiveness are as much to frighten us away from this power of summary judgment.  Instead, we do well to, as the word itself invites us to think, throw that judgment as far away from us as we can, and instead seek to forgive - to take the liberating freedom that comes with casting off the debt owed.
			* In that tossing away, we offer the judgement to God, and entrust in God's justice and faithfulness to do what's right - and while it might not happen in the way or the timing we want, what we can do is set our minds towards being liberated.
	* For a community, we can do all we can to create a habit of this.
		* It should be prefaced first by saying that this forgiveness is not the same as reconciliation.  To do that requires change on both sides.  We can forgive - liberating our hearts - and not feel the need to invite someone who has wronged us back into the fold.  My guess is, for instance, that should the freed slave not had done what he did, he and the king would have had no further reason to be connected.
		* But as Paul reminds us - there's all sorts of ways we can judge, and over time that those judgements can build ways we might believe we are slighting each other.
		* But instead, what is it like to be a community not living nor dying for just ourselves?  To live liberated from the bonds of judgment?  Well, it certainly might feel a little less hypocritical.  It might feel free.
