# 09.24.23

* Story of when I won the math contest
	* I was a good enough kid at math
	* But, once I won a math competeition
	* Part of me felt good - how could you not?
	* But, it was interesting to feel everyone else, and I noticed it even then as a seventh grader.
		* Why wasn't it Charlie, or Mary, or Jenny?  They were the really smart ones in math.  I just was part of the happy band of others.
		* And, thankfully, we were all good friends, but I still felt like a bit of an imposter.  Maybe I shouldn't have gotten the best score.
	* That imposter syndrome follows us if we've in a similar situation
		* Were you routinely last picked on the playground?  You know what I'm talking about
		* Ever come in as the underdog in something?
		* Ever try something that you knew was hard, and you had people tell you that you shouldn't do it?  That you weren't good enough or smart enough or capable enough?  Reminds me of Skee Lo
* But we've been on the other side, I'm sure, too.
	* It's why The Little Red Hen is still a story we tell today!
	* As much as we love underdog stories, we don't talk a whole lot about the second place finisher.  It's not like they're not working hard typically, doing good work.
	* And for every time I've won something, I feel like I've lost 5 or 6 - and at times.
	* It's no wonder then the conflict that arises.  Because all of us at some point want to feel like we've earned a win.  That our hard work doesn't just simply relegate us to a bench.
* See, I think all of these stories that we carry have something to do with our identity.
	* The stories today give us such a terrific range of humanity.
	* The Ninevites and our late hires must have felt amazing.
		* In each case, they were not the ones you felt like should be on the team, and yet somehow, are finding a win! 
		* Their lives are fully enhanced by what's happening here.  Financially, spiritually.  I can't imagine the boost this must have been.
	* However, perhaps our other workers had a point.  What kind of absurd labor practice is here?  How would one expect to keep up a business... no one is going to show up to work a full day tomorrow.
		* ...but, if you notice, that isn't what they complain about.  It's about that they have been made "equal"
		* I wonder if that's underneath some of Jonah's tantrum as well - Didn't I say this was going to happen, God?  That you were going to bestow the same things to these people that you have on me and my people?  Why do they get it?
	* In the end, both Jonah and the workers are trying to claim an identity for themselves that allows some separation - some way to prove that they're not last rounders, that they deserve the prize.  And yet, God still provides to everyone.
* And here may be then an opening to a better identity should we want it - it's to move towards a new way of looking at the overwhelming abundance of God's grace.
* How often are our identities built upon scarcity?  That we only have enough.  That we can only be so capable, so wealthy, and only have so many opportunties?
	* When we are successful, we think we've cheated time and death
	* When we aren't, we are apt to carry that failure within us, and perhaps continue  to resentment... you lose too many times to someone else, you wonder what they've done to deserve it.
	* Yet if God's grace and love are infinitely abundant, then it does not need to adhere to scarcity's hierarchy.  First rounders, last rounders, the far flung all are welcome.  God's generosity knows nothing of humanity's broken structures.
	* Which might then understandably annoy us.  Or certainly make us question why we even try - I mean, if the bread's always going to be there, why help the little red hen at all?  Don't we need a little healthy competetion?
* How would we know?  What would be our marker to see that we're leaning more that direction?
	* Are you envious because I am generous: Are you looking with your evil eye because I am good?
	* In other words, are you giving the stank eye to goodness, to generosity?  To an identity that doesn't have its spoils go to some priority list?
	* When we start doing, yes, we will start to allow the resntment of our broken systems in our hearts.
	* Yet, do you notice that in each circumstance when a stank eye is turned to God, God entertains the question?  God extends that grace too?  I mean, God asks Jonah twice if it's right for him to be angry? The first time he doesn't even answer.
	* So perhaps, when we start to feel the stank eye coming, we might want to remember that that the same grace and mercy is infinitely available to us, even in our tantrums, perhaps.
	* What if then we turned the moment on its head - "oh, my goodness, did you see what God has done for that person?  Did you see the grace showered on them?  Did you see how lavishly that were cared for?  My Lord and my God, that you will also do that for me!"
	* mIght we suddenly find ourselves on our knees, giving thanks to God for all the grace we've been given?  MIght we want to push harder to see that grace and mercy extended to the futherest imaginable reaches because it demonstrates how good it is for all of us?  Might we celebrate when the last rounder succeeds?
