---
date:
  - 2023-12-10
lectionary: year b
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1]]"
title: "Too Deep For Words: Fulfillment"
tags:
  - Advent
  - fulfillment
  - nostalgia
  - saudade
  - hope
---
<iframe frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay" src="https://sermons.logos.com/embed/sermons/1221332?includeSermonDetails=false" width="600" height="337"></iframe>

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#46|Luke 1,46-55]] 
And Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord,  
and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,  
for he has looked with favor on the lowly state of his servant. 
Surely from now on all generations will call me blessed,  
for the Mighty One has done great things for me, and holy is his name;  
indeed, his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation.  
He has shown strength with his arm; he has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.  
He has brought down the powerful from their thrones and lifted up the lowly;  
he has filled the hungry with good things and sent the rich away empty.  
He has come to the aid of his child Israel, in remembrance of his mercy,  
according to the promise he made to our ancestors, to Abraham and to his descendants forever."  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#47]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#48]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#49]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#50]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#51]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#52]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#53]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#54]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 1#55]]

- If there's one place in church life that has more varied and strong opinions, it's none other than this time of year, and the age-old debate around Christmas Carols during Advent.
- But I'm not sure we take a whole lot of time to really dig into why - why do we really care all that much about this?  Sometimes, it seems, our feelings on this border on almost the irrational.  They're just songs, and you'll get plenty of them on the radio any time.
- This all comes at a time that, personally, I had a highlight moment - my beloved Columbus Crew won the MLS cup.
	- This was not the year they were supposed to win.  A new coach, a rearrangement of a new system of play.
	- But, yesterday, on their home field, they defeated the current champions in such a resolute fashion that I didn't doubt the outcome for a second.
	- I asked the same question of myself - why do I care about this team?  Why does anyone?
	- Well, I started becoming a fan of the Crew when I first moved to Columbus as a single guy with my first apartment of my own.  OSU had tickets for $5, and I would go with new friends in my graduate program and watch the team play, themselves fresh of their first MLS cup.
	- Overtime, it was something I looked forward to.  After awhile, once I got my first job out of school, one of the very first things I did was buy season tickets.
	- It was, no joke, one of the very first things I said to a girl who I had become interested in - she mentioned she enjoyed going to sporting events, and I said that I had season tickets to the Crew.  That girl later became the person I'd marry.  It became an important connecting point to her brother, someone who I've since connected on far more things as well.
	- I've seen so much of my life through the lens of the Crew - I took Abe to his first game when he was barely a year old.
	- When I left to go to Austin for seminary, there was a coup being undertaken that would stolen the team from Columbus, and it broke my heart to watch this team that had connected me so much with a place I called home be drug through the mud saying that no one cared.
	- But, the groundswell of support led to the team remaining in Columbus with a new owner, new management, and in the midst of a wild 2020 season, they won another cup.  It felt special as I had left Columbus to come to Jacksonville that this happened.
	- And then, again, amongst my family, my son who loves to play soccer now, and friends of mine I've made around soccer, I watched them win again.
- Now, of course, comes the waiting.  No more Crew until February.  We'll talk about it, study it, I'll play with friends, coach a team, but this present excitement now has to relegate itself to anticipation.
- See, in the end, I realized that my love the Crew is only just in part about the game, but it's about the lifetime of experiences around it.  It's why we root for our college teams.  It's why we get mad about who goes to a playoff or not as if it had any real bearing on our lives at all... it's because of our lives wrapped up in something.
- So it is with Christmas carols.  Because I think if we're all honest with ourselves, objectively, most of these songs wouldn't break our top 20 list of favorites.  They're fine musically, okay lyrically, but none of that matters.  When we think about it, we wrap ourselves in years past of all of the good of this time.
- But it begs the question for me - if this is all true, and it's all about the memories, why wouldn't we just always have Christmas all the time?  Why not have every Sunday awash with carols, Christmas trees, the retelling of the story over and over?  Why not just relive the Crew games week in and week out?
- There's a word for this outside of the English language.  The word is *saudade*. Different than nostalgia, saudade is "a longing for something that once existed, a person or place that lives in our memory... saudade encompasses a longing for something that never was, something not attainable."
- When we sing these carols, or when we experience the love of our sports teams, there is a bit of that saudade in us.  I can't go back to my first date with Lindsey even if I want to.  I can't relive the first Christmases with my children.  But for a moment, I can capture it again.
- So why wouldn't we?  It feels like some sort of torture to wait it out until after Christmas day?
- I think we can find an answer with Mary's Magnificat:
	- Here, in Jesus, Mary's acutely aware of the promises that have yet to been fulfilled by God - a bit of Hebraic saudade.
	- But, soon, Mary cries, it will all change - this Jesus will be a liberator, freeing the people from the injustices that they have witnessed for ages, and currently sense under the Roman occupation of Israel.  
	- And, perhaps then, in this in between - a longing for what hasn't happened and the realization that something **will** come, **will** change, Mary shows the value of the anticipation.
- The reason why we don't run Christmas carols all the time, or constantly live in the fantasies of sports games past - or even constantly revel in the memories of what's passed is because the absence and its longing is what reminds us of what matters to us.  This is why, for many Portuguese scholars and authors, *saudade* isn't a sadness, but a type of pleasure and indulgence.  It's a feeling that reminds us of what is truly important.
- In the next few months, I will be excited for the Crew to play again.  But it's because I love having my son nuzzled up on my lap for perhaps only a couple more years as he watches his first sports love with his dad.  Someday, that won't happen again.  And I'll celebrate the bittersweetness in the future and look forward to someday, perhaps, him doing the same with his child.
- I look forward to the coming savior at his birth, and will sing deeply and full-throatedly the satisfaction of all the carols and all that it's meant to me - so much the one who will set aright the world, yes, but also all of the joy of spilling wax of a Christmas Eve candle on the pews of my grandfather's church.  But should we approach it too quickly, we will not feel its gravity and worth to us.  We might miss Mary's celebrations of a world made new.
- So here's my encouragement, as it might be every year: relish the *saudade*.  Allow yourself to indulge in what you miss.  Imagine for a moment, perhaps the things that you cannot get back, and remember why they matter to you.  Because each of those memories, moments, feelings - they are what fulfill us, just as Mary is in her Magnificat.