---
date:
  - 2023-12-17
lectionary: year b
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2]]"
title: "Too Deep For Words: Legacy"
tags: 
---
<iframe frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay" src="https://sermons.logos.com/embed/sermons/1225244" width="600" height="392"></iframe>

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#22|Luke 2,22-35]] When the time came for their purification according to the law of Moses, they brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord  (as it is written in the law of the Lord, "Every firstborn male shall be designated as holy to the Lord"),  and they offered a sacrifice according to what is stated in the law of the Lord, "a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons."  Now there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; this man was righteous and devout, looking forward to the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit rested on him.  It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Messiah.  Guided by the Spirit, Simeon came into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him what was customary under the law,  Simeon took him in his arms and praised God, saying,  "Master, now you are dismissing your servant in peace, according to your word,  for my eyes have seen your salvation,  which you have prepared in the presence of all peoples,  a light for revelation to the gentiles and for glory to your people Israel."  And the child's father and mother were amazed at what was being said about him.  Then Simeon blessed them and said to his mother Mary, "This child is destined for the falling and the rising of many in Israel and to be a sign that will be opposed  so that the inner thoughts of many will be revealed--and a sword will pierce your own soul, too."  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#23]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#24]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#25]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#26]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#27]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#28]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#29]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#30]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#31]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#32]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#33]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#34]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 2#35]]

---

"What do you know about a red dragon in Advent and a Nativity set?"  was the text that was sent to me mid-week.  I'm glad for the fact that people will ask me questions about the Bible, but at first, admittedly, this one had me a bit stumped.  A red dragon?  In a nativity set?  At first it almost felt like a joke - someone trying to see if I knew some deep Bible trivia, until I realized the person sending the text was none other than my wife.

She had a conversation with a couple of her co-workers who attended a church in Jacksonville whose pastor preached a sermon all about making sure that we switch out the wisemen and then add a red dragon to the nativity set...

Now, I'm really pretty neutral about what someone puts in their nativity - it's a symbol for each of us individually, a part of the whole time of anticipation of the coming newborn king.  Yes, of course, it's not exactly historical: there wasn't a moment when everyone came at the same time to see Jesus, but by putting everyone together, we tell the Christmas story to ourselves each time we see it.

But, no, I'd never heard about a red dragon.  So, like any good nerd would do, I start researching.  And what I come to find is pretty fascinating.  

This idea is brought to us by Revelation 12, which for many scholars is considered the peak of the book, where a woman is portrayed in the throes of pains in childbirth, while a dragon (often a symbol for Satan or demons in Scripture) is at bay, looking to devour the child.  By connecting these, in part, it helps solidify the need for Die Hard to be a Christmas movie - if you're looking for action to relieve the apparent overbearing feel-goodness you might be worn out with at this time, well, here it is.

For some folks, this is important - the woman is made to be Mary, and the child Jesus.  It revels in the violent imagery of what's happening during the Christmas moment - the Savior of the world, headed to battle.  In the end, we find that the Savior will win the day, the dragon is defeated, and the New Jerusalem will come - Heaven on Earth.

Scholars will be quick to point out, however, that to only have Revelation 12 be about Mary is to make it too short-handed.  A good read of Revelation will help us see how many audiences John's writing is heading towards - the people of Israel reeling from the destruction of Jerusalem that happened around this time, pagan myths for people not affiliated with the growing sect becoming Christianity, and of course, Mary.  

Now, at a Bible Trivia night, this would assuredly be a great tiebreaker question to win you the all the gift certificates you want.  But the question sat with me after I responded to Lindsey - why would a pastor want to preach this to a congregation?

So, like any good pastor/nerd would do, I watched the sermon.

And I didn't have to go too far but to simply look at the tagline on the video, which says "this is not a silent night... this is war!"  The pastor, a terrific public speaker and engaging preacher, put together a narrative that went something like this - this time in which Jesus is to come starts a ground invasion, a war.  We have to be ready to be part of the army that is fighting against good and evil!

Who is the enemy?  Well, in the hour-long sermon, the pastor spends only about a minute or two on who it is, but his emphasis makes it clear: repetitive tropes about culture wars.  In fact, towards the end, he argues that anyone who doesn't agree with this truth (read more clearly the truth that he has put forward), then they are your enemy.

In other words, dear friends, last Sunday, I had war declared against me by another pastor.  And, my guess is, you did too.  

This whole thing is strange, in general, but in particular here at this moment.  I believe, in part, that yes, there are forces of good and evil and that Christ did and will continue to overcome those forces.  But to create a scene in our Nativity, in this Advent to become Christmas moment that creates a scene of abject violence, the battle lines predicated on social issues, feels so against the times.  I've struggled with it since the question.  Why would we create this?

Part of it, I think, is a desire to belong - to feel who we are and what we are is of value.  This is in the air everywhere - we've struggled with political polarization, creating new lines in the sand of who is in and who is out, and wanting to be sure in a world that often feels like only the ones with enough followers and enough clout matter, we want to ensure that we are part of a winning team.  And so, to do so, we might look to create new in and outgroups.

And where else might there be more fertile ground than tender, joyful, celebratory Christmas time to create a new "us-versus-them?"  And, in a society that valorizes war, why not declare a new one?  We develop combatants, we become battle tested, veterans in the heavenly battles taking place all around us.  Use the weapons of Scripture against Starbucks, against your gay niece, and you will amass another bar about your Spiritual chest.  Now you belong.  Now you have clear identity.  You are a warrior of God, a permanent winning side.

The problem of this, of course, are the scars incurred by such battles.  Loss of friendships, of family connections.  Hardened hearts made to resist the trauma of the skirmishes.  To continue to look at the world as a holy battlefield raises the cortisol and adrenaline in our spirits such that over time we suffer from a PTSD of sorts - the type that we witness all over as people burnout from Christianity and abandon it altogether.  Not to mention that should we be given to a spiritual war, our hearts might be poised to take on other battles - of Christian Nationalism, turning perhaps to weaponry not just of Spirit but of steel.

I have got to imagine that there's a better way of seeing things.  That yes, our desire to have done something of importance, of significance is real but to only create some congregation of John McClains isn't the only outcome of this journey - if all we are are John McClains, then we'll always need to find a Hans Gruber.

And so, like any good nerd pastor writing a sermon would do, I did my research.  And here we have our friend Simeon.

Simeon's biography in the annals of Scripture is remarkably thin.  He is, for all intents and purposes, an everyman.  He's you.  He's me.  He lives in the city, and was a good person.  By every standard of morality and character, he's checked the boxes, Luke tells us by calling him righteous - the same way he's described Zechariah and Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist.  And, moreover, he's devout.  He follows the customs.  He was the guy, consistently, who showed up to the temple.  He certainly sacrificed, attended to the festivals.  But, otherwise, we are given nothing about him.

Except the fact that he was "looking forward to the consolation of Israel."  You see, Simeon felt the same pangs of a world not as it should be as we might.  He had hope for his people that they'd be consoled and made to feel comfort from their disappointments.

Joseph and Mary, too, are devout.  They know the customs, and what they need to do with their new child.  And so they head to temple.

I have to imagine there was a familiar tug at Simeon's heart.  A voice similar to the one he heard in a promise before - in what he'd see.  And so, trusting that tug, devout Simeon heads to temple as well.  And, then, in a moment, Simeon opens his arms, and embraces consolation.  We see Simeon's story unfold.  He sees what the Christ will do - not just for his people, but for all people.  His presence will prick at the consciences of many, probe our hearts.  

There is no war here.  There is no battle to be fought, no violence.  There is the joyful embrace of an infant and the celebration of God's faithfulness.  Here, my dear friends, in Simeon's hope, we see that this Savior came to erase the battle lines, and to invite all.  It will be his presence, his story - not the one we interpret for the sake of creating an in-crowd - that will determine who chooses to be for or against.  We are the witnesses.

I wonder what this story of Simeon would have been like should Simeon had been looking for war.  Would he have heard the voice of the Spirit nudging him to see the comfort he'd be hoping for?  Would he have resisted the embrace of a child born of two out-of-towners, who have been rumored to have borne a child out of wedlock?  Or, even perhaps, to find comfort in an infant at all?  What weakness!  Where is the general upon the throne?

When we peel back the bravado, the overwrought imagery of creating hyper-intense battles where we can earn our stripes, we see where the quest for an identity and legacy gets lost upon thinking all these moments are simply for the fight.  We lose ourselves.  We lose the Christ child.  We lose consolation - the word itself so closely similar to the word Luke uses to describe the Holy Spirit at Pentecost we may safely allow our minds to wonder whether or not losing the comfort means we lose the Spirit's tug in our lives.

Which leaves us, perhaps, worst than when we started.  

But here's the good news of Simeon, friends.  We too long for comfort and consolation - this Advent season where we anticipate, strip away, and focus on where our hearts yearn - and the Spirit tugs at our hearts.  It invites us onward, to go and see what's there - that the promises spoken before are not in vain.

And when we go, we will not be disappointed.  Over again, we meet a child.  Small, defenseless, unremarkable.  Yet we know.  We know here is our glad tidings of comfort and joy.  We are fulfilled.  We see our lives as having been worth it.

And the miracle of it?  As Simeon, it doesn't matter what we do.  Who we are.  Where we've been.  Where we go.  Are we righteous?  Devout?  Longing for comfort?  The answers with which we respond to those questions are the pricks of the sword - the revelation of our innermost thoughts.  

But it isn't about what we do.  It's not about the fight.  It's not about the clout or accounts or anything that sweeps us up into a frenzy of fighting.  After all, the victory is won - we need not fight again - or ever.  We wait for the comforter.  And our legacy - our identity, our hope, our joy, our salvation, our conscience, our longing, our yearning, our satisfaction, our salvation - all lie in the chance to meet an infant at the temple, open our arms wide and say "my eyes have seen."  We are witnesses.  We stand in awe of what God has done through God's promises.

So, friends, here's my counter-invitation.  Put up whatever nativity you want. But, perhaps, for a moment, let your inner thoughts be revealed: what is it you're seeking?  What comfort are you longing for?  The one that should you find it you can walk away from everything not embattled, but in peace?  Let that be your legacy, your life's work - and be willing to open your arms to embrace the Christ child this year.  There, dear friends, is Advent turned to Christmas.  There is our yearning.  There, we meet our Savior.

Thanks be to God.