---
date:
  - 2023-12-24
lectionary: year b
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 1]]"
title: Spiraling Around Christmas
tags:
  - "#time"
  - "#liturgy"
  - "#christmas-eve"
  - "#experiecnce"
---
- I've had a chance to keep better track of all of my sermons, switching over to a new program.
- It keeps track of every word I've written collectively in a folder
- Not including this one tonight, the amount is 203,788.  And that's probably missing a few.
- That means, conservatively, the sermons I've put together could fill a book nearly 700 pages long.
- That's a strange feeling, because each of these feels like a moment in time.  To think about arranging them in one tome, stacked on top of each other, feels a little strange.
- Yet, what's kind of interesting, is that there are moments that repeat themselves, like today.  I've preached now a half a dozen of these services, thinking about the same baby Jesus, the same movements, the same passage, but I never get bored of it.  I never feel like it's the same thing.
- It's probably the same for you each time you come to this service.  You, in part, know what to expect - carols, candlelighting services, seeing all these Advent candles alight.  This, for whatever reason, is never a one and done experience.  It's not a "seen it one, seen it all" kind of thing.  It's worth a revisiting.
- I wonder about that.  It could be nostalgia, it could be obligation, sure.  None of that is wrong, but I'd think at some point, those would fade.  Nostalgia begins to fade and patina like our favorite well worn photos.  Our obligations become more frayed; newer obligations come.
- No, it's more than that.
- If I think about that book of sermons, it's never just a linear thing - lots of Christmas sermons, lots of Easter sermons, lots of looking at the same text every couple years again.  Nor is it just a circle, going back around to varying moments - I'm very excited, for instance, to never have to preach sermons related to managing spirtually through a pandemic.  No, instead, it's a bit of a spiral.  We've talked about this spiral before - run a circle around and around and move it up as though we may in time, it becomes a spiral.  So yes, we return to these moments, but we are different people.  Our circumstances change.
- I mentioned this morning my first Christmas Eve at SJPC - hardly unpacked, we celebrated amidst a storm with so much wind it broke a window in another section of the campus.  It was fierce enough to cut the power, and to cause rain to come in through the stained glass, causing our string quartet to scatter to avoid potential damage to their instruments.
- None of us, though similar, are the same people from that night.  The event (thankfully) won't occur again.  One year I preached about Marie Kondo.  Much as I still like asking if things bring me joy, I'm not as much of an adherent to that idea.  
- And of course, around us here in this space has changed a lot.  Even the grounds in which we walk are not the same as they were just three years ago.  We have a new building to look forward to, great designs presented to us. 
- But here's what wonderful about all of this - is that spiral, and all of the changes that come with that spiral... of life, of death, of change, we always can come back.
- There, I think these candles and carols anchor us... they ground us.  They bring us back to a moment once again to remember who we are.
- We hear these grand words of John this year, and we realize something so critical: Christ has always been.  Christ was there at the beginning before time.  And today, we see that Christ shows up in our time: in a small child amongst family. 
- It means, in part for us, that this day, as with many others, we can return to a moment.  Different, sure, but we come home again to witness Christ's birth.  But it also means in part that Christ goes beyond time, too.  That Christ doesn't have to just be a historical artifact alone, but also journeying with us along the spiral.  That the home that is offered here to us this evening doesn't have to limit itself to December 24 every year.  
- Now, this may sound like a bit of philosophical highbrow, but let me put it to you maybe this way: take a moment, and remember back to the first Christmas Eve service you can remember.  How about the first one you had with a spouse?  With children?  After someone beloved passed away?  They're with you.  They're around you.  They come with you here.  And they'll be with you tomorrow, and next year, and in the middle of the year, and whenever you draw from them.  Even if you aren't the same, you are returning home to this moment.
- Such is, then, the gift of Immanuel.  This gift of God with us.  Each word with power on its own - God, blessed Trinity.  With - along our journey.  Us - each one, beloved by the God who goes along the spiral with us.
- We're at the table, we have the candles, we celebrate with Silent Night.  What's it like to bring it all together?
- And, so, dear friends, I invite you again to come home in your journey.  The moment is set before us.  It is quiet, our gaze dimmed with only five lights.  We will watch what happens as we continue.  That this is not static - that the world will move with Christ's appearance.  It will flow from Christ-light to you to the table.  The table will send its radiance as well, moving us back along the spiral.  But we can always come home.  Thanks be to God.

>[!hint] I've added the communion liturgy along with the sermon.  When I wrote this, I wanted to find a way to bridge together the John 1 passage, Candle-lighting, and the Eucharist.  I thought about the response from the congregation as the four verses of Silent Night (which is the traditional song for candle-lighting service).  I was really happy with the way this worked.  If I were to draft it a second time, I'd have a little bit more fidelity to the traditional communion trinitarian prayer.  While the pieces are all there, they are a little abstract.

V1 Sung

Silent night! Holy night!
All is calm, all is bright
’round yon virgin mother and child!
Holy infant, so tender and mild,
sleep in heavenly peace,
sleep in heavenly peace.

_As we gather this evening, together as a community, we see how John’s story and this night overlap.  They become one story – as we start, we draw into to the beginning – mother and child.  The Word with God, being God.  The light is bright, even if the characters who carry it are few – so much more to draw our eyes._

_So we begin at this table as well.  A table of invitation, reminding us of a light that will carry us forth.  But, for now, it’s quiet.  It will not be for long._

**Movement: as the beginning of v2 is sung, candlelight begins to be distributed.  We witness the light grow from a singular source throughout the sanctuary.**

Silent night! Holy night!
Shepherds quake at the sight.
Glories stream from heaven afar,
heav'nly hosts sing, “Alleluia!
Christ the Savior is born!
Christ the Savior is born!”

_The cast grows.  Now no longer those closest to the savior, others are invited to share the light – the shepherds – commoners of no particular mention – now themselves witness what the light means.  In the depths of their bodies, they can scarcely withhold their excitement.  How else might we expect one to reacts to heavenly glories?_

_We, too, now bear that light.  No matter our position, our rank, our temperament, we are invited to share from the one singular light – a spark that illumines the darkness.  We are a community bearing the Christ-light._

_When we hold this light, as it dances, do you note the trembling of the shadows?  Do you see the world brightening?  Darkness no longer takes hold._

_The heavenly hosts, announcing Immanuel, also speak at this table.  In simple bread and cup, we are reminded of all the ways the Word-light has been with us.  Through the dark, God has been faithful.  Through the shadows, God leads the way._ 

**Movement: During the third stanza, light will be brought from the community to the table.  Candles will be illumined at the table, showing the light expanding again to the communion table.**

Silent night! Holy night!
Son of God, love’s pure light
radiant beams from Thy holy face
with the dawn of redeeming grace,
Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth!
Jesus, Lord, at Thy birth!

_What other light carries grace?  What other beaming radiance carries redemption?  There are none other than the one shared so freely, so expansively.  The Word, Christ with us, is here.  Our savior offers us what our hearts only quietly hope for, long for: to be free._

_Oh, Savior of the world, redemption breaking like the dawn!  Who else but the one at the beginning would restore sight, liberate those in bondage – who else would offer their very selves as a continued testament to God’s glory and our freedom?_

_We hear the community of grace in his words with his friends at the table.  Each time you eat of this bread, remember me.  Each time you drink of this cup, remember me.  Each time we celebrate, we welcome the light back.  We are flame upon this table’s wick – our Spirit’s dance, we burst forth to bring light into the dark spaces – those who have long since felt their light go dark.  Here, at this table, we celebrate tonight again._

Silent night! Holy night!
Wondrous star, lend thy light;
with the angels let us sing
"Alleluia" to our King:
“Christ the Savior is born!
Christ the Savior is born.”

_Indeed we cry again for there to be light!_
_We proclaim Alleluia in this time and in all times!_
_Christ, our savior, of which there is no beginning or no end:_
_Word with God,_
_Word being God,_
_Bringing all that is from nothingness,_
_Bright fire roaring in our hearts!_
_Let us come and eat, our Spirit’s filled with light!_
_Thanks be to God,_
_The Word, Immanuel,_
_In this time and all times,_
_Amen!_