<iframe frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay" src="https://sermons.logos.com/embed/sermons/1255021" width="600" height="392"></iframe>
#lent #punishment #grace #wilderness 

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Genesis/Gen 9]]
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Mark/Mark 1]]

- It feels so strange at the outset of this year's Lent to attach the story of the covenant between Noah and God...
- I wonder how Noah must have felt as he heard God's words to him, as he looked upon the post-flooded world.  
- To just assume he felt lucky or good about it all would be an underselling of the story.  The sheer violence of the occurrence, brought on by the evil of the world, would be much to bear.  Not to mention the sheer magnitude as well.  All that was left, apparently, was his family and what was brought on the ark.  And wether or not we feel the need to take it literally or not, the gravity of the moment is real.
- This is, apparently, the consequence of evil, of injustice.  Complete and total devastation.  I can't help but think here, that even if there was relief on the part of Noah and his family, there still was the reality of this dark time.  This victory is pyrrhic at best - a zero sum result.
- And yet.
	- What we hear today in this message is a covenant by God - to everything in the world.  That this devastation will never occur again.  There will be no grand reset.  The bow has been rested and will remain a symbol of this covenant between God and God's creation: "the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh."
	- God took on the evil of the world, erased it, but then made the choice to never use the tools God had available.  Total vengance is now forever off the table.
- Which now brings up an interesting question for us to consider - what does a self-limiting God do now?
- I wonder, at times, we question a God that's self-limiting in the face of evil.  Certainly, when we come to this place and we open up God's word, we're expecting the good news to provide relief.  We want this all-powerful God to wipe away the injustices of the world - set the oppressed free.  Not to let the brokenness of the world cast too many shadows over the good.  We need that hope, we demand that grace.  And perhaps we are glad for the bow to be settled in the clouds, but gosh, wouldn't it be nice if God *did* something every once in awhile?
- Our situation with Mark opens up another dark time at first.  Jesus ministry begins with the arrest of John the Baptist.  John was a hope against the oppression of the Roman Empire, and now handed over to it.  It would have been easy there, too, to look around and wonder what it was all worth.
- But out of that moment, Christ speaks (and again, I think David Bentley Hart's translation cuts the heart of the matter): "The proper time has been fulfilled and the Kingdom of God has drawn near; change your hearts and have faith in the good tidings."
- Jesus has thrown open a bright, shining light in a dark place: here, now - not in the future - things have changed.  The Kingdom of God is close.  Bring your hearts to this truth and its suddenness - have faith in what good it brings.  And we will continue to what good it brings: healing, liberation, hope.  It is the type of moment that causes the very evil that we witnessed a couple weeks ago to acknowledge and in a word disappear.
- God's self-limiting was only just a change of the rules of engagement.  God grant reset was in the words of God's anointed one.
	- Do you notice what happens before this pronouncement?  The heavens tear themselves open: this isn't just some happy light shining according to Mark.  This is a powerful clawing at the seams of the universe of an unbridled God to do... what?  To say "You are my Son, the beloved, in you I have delighted."  The rending of the world to hear a story of love.
	- And in Mark's telling, the Spirit casts Jesus into the wilderness.  Here we get no grand story of the tempter and Jesus.  But in its sparseness, we get God's love made real in the wild: the angels attend to Jesus in the midst of temptation.  Evil cannot overcome.  Temptation does not win the day.  The flood transforms to the waters of baptism that wash us clean.
	- And moreover, we hear the breadth of this engagement through Christ the Anointed one in I Peter: this one who is beloved, who preaches healing, liberation, and hope reaches the same whole world that God promised in the covenant with Noah - all can be cared for, all can be healed.
- Our journey together through Lent and the rest of the year with Mark conveys the immediacy and importance of what is happening here with Jesus.  We can almost feel breathless with all of the "and then, and then, and then..." but in a world that is hurting where so many need to know that justice is coming, how could we be anything else but breathless?
- Our hearts crave a change - to have faith in good tidings... not in a world damned to destruction.
- We need to witness the tearing open of heaven not as another flood, but instead of the Spirit's descent upon each of us.
- Our desire to know that we, too, are beloved, that God delights in us.
- And so, if that is you, today, friend, open your heart.  These words are not just for Jesus, but for you, too.  The gravity is real, yes, but so is the Kingdom.  And it is here, now.  You are beloved.  God delights in you.  God tears open the heavens to speak that to you - not in vengeance, but in promise.
- And yes, this Spirit will cause us to go into wilderness: the places where others are wandering, seeking, needing to hear the same.  The wildnerness is the thin space of folks wearing camel skins and eating locusts - certainly not the staid walls of churches throughout the world.  But when we go, when we meet the Accuser and speak the same words we heard booming as we approached the baptismal waters, we speak the same hope.  And just as the accuser vanishes then, so will the angels attend to us.
- Have faith, friends, in the good tidings.  Open your hearts to liberation, healing, joy.  For it is there we begin our Lenten journey and will soon meet resurrection... it's a new game.