There's always one.

Every year when we come to these few topics, there's always one that, as the kids say, hits a little different.  And for this year, it's the question about who Judas is.  And I loved the way it was framed: is he just a jerk, or a manifestation of prophesy?  

Let's start there.  At first, when we explore this man, it's easy to head only there.  If he's just a jerk, well, then we can dismiss him as a strange misstep amongst the disciples Jesus chose.  That, maybe, Jesus's humanity was what led him to this selection, and, so would mark an imperfection in the savior.  After all, why would anyone want to pick someone right out the gate that would just end up handing him over to be killed?  I'd go so far to say that no manual on leadership nor teamwork would advocate for this kind of selection.  So, I'm not sure we want to just say he was a bad guy that Jesus had a bad read on: to do so would leave way more exposed about Jesus than I think most of us would want.

So that leads us to just a manifestation of prophesy.  Certainly, as Presbyterians, who hold John Calvin as an important architect of our Reformed perspective, this could be a easy out.  And, in fact, in his *Institues,* argues that he was predestined to damnation - that he was bound by God to be the one who handed over Jesus.  But even Calvin struggles with the implications of this - he argues: "And surely in Judas’ betrayal it will be no more right, because God both willed that 'God's' Son be delivered up and delivered him up to death, to ascribe the guilt of the crime to God than to transfer the credit for redemption to Judas" and then continues "Those who too insolently scoff, even though it is clear enough that they are prating against God, are not worthy of a longer refutation."  In other words, at least in my read, that to focus so much on Judas's guilt takes the emphasis away from God, and onto humanity.  And, then, if you want to argue, well, Calvin is Calvin and come at him, bro.

So, really, neither one of these solutions feel tenable.  And we're not the only ones throughout history who have struggled - the early church Fathers speak of a separate Gospel of Judas, which argues that Jesus had given Judas special knowledge - an enlightened secret agent of sorts - to ensure that the plan of God came through.  This "gospel," written a bit later and seeped in the philsophical tradition of Gnosticism, a idea that argues about his same "hidden knowledge," is roundly refuted by most of the church leaders throughout history.  Over and over again, we don't know what to do with Judas.  We want to abhor him, redeem him, punish him (keep in mind that Dante has his special reserved in the ninth circle of hell), and treat him as an archetype throughout literature with too many references to list - but suffice it say, Judas has come up as a foil in works from Chaucer all the way through Norman Mailer.

And there may be our better way of understanding this character.  Because it always seems to me that the characters in the Bible that we keep putting up as symbols or representations are always the ones that we fear most, as they can feel all to familiar should we let them stand on their own.  A guy like Judas feels monsterous, sure, but monsters allow us to hold them away in fear.  One of my favorite books in the last year, Claire Dederer's book called "Monsters: A Fans Dilemma," asked a question about people whose work she loved - Picasso, Woody Allen, Ernest Hemmingway - but who perpetrated awful things, and she eventually, through her own realizations about her drinking habits and how they had created her into something she did not like, came to a conclusion that in the midst of focusing on other monsters, she failed to recognize she, too, is a broken, imperfect person.  A monster in her own right... she says "...I thought about the feeling I had, the feeling that I abandoned my children simply by drinking.  My children who still loved me, who loved me no matter what... loved despite my flaws.  Unfairly loved.  Undeservedly loved... love is not reliant on judgment, but on a decision to set judgment aside.  Love is anarchy.  Love is chaos.  We don't love the deserving; we love flawed and imperfect human beings, in an emotional logic that belongs to an entirely different weather system than the chilly climate of reason."

I love the turn of phrase "chilly climate of reason," because it can be applied to so many circumstances in our Christian walks.  We place logical walls against the people that we'd rather not be, place them as one-dimensional rhetorical figures that allow us to simplify the human condition.  David = good (but not really), Moses = good (but not really), Paul = good (but not really).  Even each of them acknowledge their shortcomings!  Jesus himself says only one is good, and it ain't him.  And so it begs the question that Judas = bad might also mean but not really.

Let's take a moment and draw the lens out further.  We learn that Judas had a love of money - maybe too much of a love.  We learn that he was the treasurer of this band of disciples, but might have taken it upon himself to skim a little off the top.  When others wanted to lavish upon Jesus their extravagance, Judas questions why - wouldn't expensive items poured upon Jesus be better sold and given to the poor?  And we can second guess the intentions, but I'm fairly certain that inclination is not unfamiliar to any of us.

The chief priests have already determined that Jesus needed to die - there is no special circumstance to that, according to Matthew.  Judas need not be some spiritual James Bond; the die is cast.  And so, Judas goes to them, asking what it will take to deliver him to the chief priests: and note I didn't say betray.  This is far more important than we might give it credit for, as our texts and their translations already open us to judgment.  The Greek here is more open: more of a giving over to authorities.  And what did it take?  All we know is thirty pieces of silver.  Almost all currency is minted in silver, which leads us to consider that the amount isn't the point.  And while we make a point of this ourselves, Jesus lets each disciple know that in their own way, they'll fail him.  Oh, sure, Peter has his confidence, but, Peter will deny Jesus, too.

"Friend, get on to what you are here for."  Jesus does not call Judas enemy, damned soul, betrayer.  In the moment, Jesus calls Judas by what he is - a disciple, a comrade, a friend.  Judas is not denied a seat at the table, is not denied his community.  In spite of his handing over, he is still welcome.

I wonder if that's why Jesus speaks that the handing over would be worse than not being born at all.  To deny the person and place to be loved with judgment set aside, being loved as an undeserving one is a pain that shatters us. And we witness that shattering in the end.  Judas feels the weight of his missteps - his monstrous choice - and wants nothing to do with it.  And here, amidst the priests would be a place of absolution.  If he's denied the love, he can at least be redeemed.  And here, perhaps more than anywhere else in the gospels, we feel the chilly climate of reason wash over Judas - "Not our problem" - we infer the latter "we got what we wanted from you."  Judas was used by the other community he could call home.  And it is striking to me - in a way that is still opened ended to me - that for all the bravado of the disciples promises that they would be willing to die with Jesus, the only one to meet that fate in the text is Judas.

To sit with Judas as I have for the last couple weeks, to try to call him friend, has meant to deny myself the easy outs - and when I do, it shows me that the line between him and me is so thin as to not exist.  He's neither jerk or sole fulfillment of prophesy, but human.  Broken, fallen, collapsing amongst a culture and system that would rather use him for their own ends than to care.  Who knows if he thought by acquiescing to human power he might very well save some of that for himself - a reality far too well known in our current politics.  And when he's chewed up and spit out, he's only left with grief - a grief that wasn't necessary.  Because the only throughline that is certain is that Jesus never stopped loving Judas, never stopped calling him friend, never stopped offering him his place at the table in which he offers himself for all.  We come to the same realization that Dederer does - we are monsters, too.  We are Judas.  But we are loved more than we can reconcile - more than we think we deserve.  And this leads us also to remember that the others we want to consider monsters in their own right are loved the same.