> [!example] Notes
> - Esther is designed to be a comedy.  The essence of the book (JPS)
> - Comedy is often meant to soften the blow of what's serious.  It's the jester in the court.  This often seems to be what the OT does.  Broken people still able to do something for God.  JPS calls it *burlesque*: artistic composition that for the sake of laughter
> - Also had a purpose to explain the historical story of Purim.


- Our reading today does a great job getting us through the beginning of our text, but what it misses a little bit is describing the scene here, so I was hoping you could take a moment and hear what the writer gives us.  Close your eyes if you want:
	- There were white cotton curtains and blue hangings tied with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and marble pillars. There were couches of gold and silver on a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble, mother-of-pearl, and colored stones. Drinks were served in golden goblets, goblets of different kinds, and the royal wine was lavished according to the bounty of the king. Drinking was by flagons, without restraint; for the king had given orders to all the officials of his palace to do as each one desired.
	- This was the fantasy of all the coming-of-age movies of my youth: it's a rager party in the nicest home of the wealthiest, most popular high schooler that was known - the quarterback, too! Here was the place you wanted to be!
	- And if we keep rolling it out, we see how true this analogy continues to be.  As the party rolls on, there is a spat between the quarterback and his girlfriend, likely the head cheerleader.  And clearly, the quarterback's ego is bruised.
	- So, as a result, he and the rest of his bros get together: man, he can't do you like that... what will the rest of the football team think?  You gotta do something.  You can't let this stand.
	- And in a purely inebriated state, the quarterback does the unconscionable - he breaks up with the cheerleader.  And moreover, he tells everyone in the school that no girl - from the most popular to the least, cannot treat their significant other similarly.  And this testosterone-fueled edict races through the school: messengers from far and wide share the message.
	- Now - if we keep going, we see how much stranger it will get - the quarterback has a contest to determine who will be his next girlfriend.  And so, one by one, they all prepare themselves for a beauty contest - a year-long spa vacation.  One of the girls - who, as far as we can tell, isn't any better or any worse than the cheerleader, except we know she's meant to associate with us, the audience, is there, too: her older brother, now in college, says she needs to be there too.  And she wins the contest.
	- But, all is not well, we find out - one of the other boys in the school too - I'm thinking of the cool, loner type - the Fonz - decides to undo the same group we associate with... stopping with nothing less than their destruction, as well as the quarterback!  What a mess!
- It's hilarious to think this book and this beginning are part of the Holy Scriptures.  Oh sure, we can create this to be a beautiful story of Esther's faithfulness and daring - that's certainly there, and we will next week.  But to only do that overlooks the truly outsized ridiculousness of how we get there in the first place.  Adele Berlin, the author of the Jewish Publication Society's commentary on Esther, reminds us of this: "The very fact that Esther is part of the Bible—a holy book with religious authority and religious teachings—forces us to make it fit the expectations we have about what the Bible is and what kinds of writing it contains. We expect a biblical book to be serious and its message to be congruent with the messages of other biblical books as they have been interpreted by the tradition," and quoting Moshe Halbertal, an Israeli philosopher, ends by saying, "...paradoxically, then, the canonization of a work sometimes serves to suppress its most plausible readings."
- So how can we read Esther together this month?  Amongst many things (a way to describe the festival of Purim, a way for Jewish people in diaspora to understand how to live well in a foreign land), it perhaps best is thought about as a burlesque, which is defined as "an artistic composition... that, for the sake of laughter, vulgarizes lofty material or treats ordinary material with mock dignity."  The humor of the vulgarities.  Got a nice ring to it.
- Of course, this is the best tool of the court jester or the standup comedian: through a good laugh, we're able to tackle issues that otherwise would be taboo to approach head-on. We're more apt to deal with the places we're uncomfortable because of a laugh along the way.
	- And, it's not like I won't periodically, as a guilty pleasure, go back and watch some of those coming-of-age movies now - because as silly as they are, they shine a light on some terrible tendencies we can still tend to live into.
	- Because listen, if I were to act like our King here to Lindsey, you'd bet the outcome would not be the same: it'd be the fastest way for me to find myself unmarried and maybe not even alive.  But, sadly, I'm still not the ideal husband.  As close as she is, Lindsey isn't perfect.  None of us are.  But the farce can pierce my ego and encourage me to do better.
	- And if we're willing to take even the closest look at our world through the farce, it's not hard to find too many examples, thousands of years later, of women being treated like Vashti and Esther and apprently .  How many of you have felt too often like you must become an object to get ahead?
	- It's not hard to see how ego-driven maniacs with one too many sycophantic yes men beside them make sweeping policy decisions that sound good at the top but are destructive throughout the rest of society.
	- It doesn't take much stretch of imagination to see how minority populations, torn from their homes as a result of violence, are still plotted against by people in power - just go back and look at last week's fantastic sermon and talk by Jeff about the crisis of asylum seekers at our borders.
	- And we might miss it all if we take Esther too seriously, suppressing its deeper message because we want to focus only on the hero and heroine. We want always to be good and find ourselves in Esther and Mordecai, but we're also Ahasureus and Memucan.
- When we welcome the farce, the burlesque, and are arrested by its depth of meaning and its way to recognize actual truth.  We filter out the silliness to get to the heart of what we're called to be.
	- We mentioned that throughout the month, John 17 acts as our gospel background - the good news beyond all of the world's ridiculousness.
	- Because maybe, if we allow ourselves a moment, we witness the humor of the vulgarities that led to this prayer - he's God in human form, completely rejected by the world.  What folly!  What ridiculousness to be given a savior only to run him out!
	- But here, in this last moment with his disciples before he heads to Calvary and to resurrection, he offers a prayer, sending them out into the world, ending by saying "I made your name known to them, and I will make it known, so that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them."  Sending out with love - the love of God, Godself, one that pours itself out totally on others... that's what the jester points to in Esther as what's missing.  Of knowing and being known - of denying oneself in the midst of drunken rage to find the lost.
	- I can't help but look at our own society right now and wonder if it's not ripped from the pages of Esther.  I mean, honestly. But should we be too serious, we'll find ourselves part of the same farce - when we find our political allegiances taking priority over our Spiritual allegiances, we might very well be missing it.  So let's begin by pointing at its ridiculousness in all of its audacity, and then find what the truth is underneath for each of us called her to this place: an inbreaking Kingdom turning to all the world in love.  
	- In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and Mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be forever. Amen.