[[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#41|Luke 2,41-52]] Now every year his parents went to Jerusalem for the festival of the Passover.  And when he was twelve years old, they went up as usual for the festival.  When the festival was ended and they started to return, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but his parents were unaware of this.  Assuming that he was in the group of travelers, they went a day's journey. Then they started to look for him among their relatives and friends.  When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem to search for him.  After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions.  And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.  When his parents saw him they were astonished, and his mother said to him, "Child, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously looking for you."  He said to them, "Why were you searching for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?"  But they did not understand what he said to them.  Then he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was obedient to them, and his mother treasured all these things in her heart.  And Jesus increased in wisdom and in years and in divine and human favor.  [[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#41]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#42]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#43]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#44]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#45]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#46]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#47]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#48]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#49]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#50]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#51]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSV/Luke/Luke 2#52]]

- They're a pious family... this is something that is a tradition of sorts
- Feels a little like Home Alone then - just a really odd moment in what should seem standard
	- First, it's odd they don't notice his disappearance right away
		- Can't help but think you'd be extra cautious when you're raising the King of Kings, but honestly, it feels more like Lukan plot development than an indication of parenting.
		- Also funny that they took three days before they said "oh, maybe we should check temple", but it's helpful to know that Luke is writing this more as an indeterminant period, and not a literal three days... also the allusions shouldn't be lost on us, either.
	- When they find him, though, it indicates the child he is.
		- An equal in a colloquium of well-learned rabbis.
		- And in particular, his "understanding" is as much about insight - synthesis of information.
	- What unfolds is the reality of a child's growth an independence - Mary's comment is one of disappointment and disillusionment.
	- And Jesus doesn't actually apologize, but stands his ground.  He's convicted that he's doing the right thing.  It makes you wonder how, as a child, he heard the stories of his miraculous birth, of maybe feeling who he was as he grew.  This moment is inevitable.
	- Which might be why 2:51 is a call back to 2:19.  These things are snapshots to Mary, placed in the scrapbook of her soul.  Stored for later use.
- There are a couple things to draw form this
	- It is a brief opening to the incarnation - to allow us to see in some small part who Jesus is becoming so early.  Nestled in between two presentations - the one at Temple, and then the presentation from John - it offers us a unique call and response: he was publicly celebrated, he's responding, and then he's publicly celebrated again.
	- But I also wonder if this is as much a story of parenthood.
		- That maybe with all the things we love and care for, there's always a hope they surpass us and our expectations - hopefully not too soon - but that they will.
		- And I can't imagine how that felt if you're Mary and Joseph.
		- But it's always the hope of progress that we treasure and hold in our hearts.