A beloved professor from my alma mater, Dr. Clyde Kilby, once penned a list of resolutions for cultivating an awareness of God at work in the world. In them, he writes, “Even if I turn out to be wrong, I shall bet my life on the assumption that this world is not idiotic, neither run by an absentee landlord, but that today, this very day, some stroke is being added to the cosmic canvas that in due course I shall understand with joy as a stroke made by the architect who calls himself Alpha and Omega.”

It’s a mouthful, but I find myself returning to this resolution over and over because it speaks to the particular brand of despair that I am prone to. When the world feels out of control, when tragedy strikes, when things are not as I wish they were and I cannot understand why, this image of God as the Absentee Landlord seems descriptive. I can wonder if God really cares anymore, is really still active in the world, is an any way intimately involved. And it turns out I’m not unique in this. A landmark study from 2009 of teens and young adults reared in the church, so my millennial peers, shows that many of us walked away from our Sunday School classes and youth groups with an understanding of religion as “moralistic therapeutic deism.” That’s the technical term for it. Pastor Meredith Miller describes it this way: it’s a religion about being a good person, a religion meant to make me feel better in which God is basically far away, but might make occasional appearances if help is needed. Note that “might.” God is essentially distant and uninvolved unless I rub the magic genie lamp the right way. And so the image of the Absentee Landlord sticks. It’s as if God has fixed up the world, moved us into it, and then moved onto other things. Now there’s a hole in the roof, the apartment is flooding, the drinking water is unsafe, but we we’re having trouble getting ahold of anyone who can fix it. Voicemail full. I think that is certainly a bit how Israel felt in our passage today.

We join the prophet Isaiah toward the end of Israel’s exile. Exile was brutal. The Babylonians were vicious conquerors who laid siege to Jerusalem, and when God’s people could hold out no longer, they rounded up any survivors they deemed to be of worth and marched them to Babylon. The people were starving, they were injured, they had endured loss after loss of family, friend, and neighbor, seen unspeakable horrors. We need look no further than some of the horrific tales we have heard from Ukraine or Gaza of late to imagine what exile might have been like. The Israelites were driven from their homes, their children were taken and forced to assimilate into a foreign culture. They were subject to the whims of a violent and capricious invader. And devastatingly, in a religious culture that viewed God’s temple as the place where God worked in the world, they watched the temple be destroyed and desecrated, and then were sent away from their promised holy land so that they could not even rebuild. God’s people might understandably have wondered if God had stopped taking their calls.

In our passage today, in the midst of this devastating exile, God reenters the chat with beautiful, hopeful promises of restoration for God’s people. I find the language here evocative of the 23rd Psalm, the Good Shepherd leading the people by right paths to green pastures and still waters. Here we have the Lord promising to lead the people out of exile: “the bare heights shall be their pasture…he who has pity on them will lead them, and by springs of water will guide them.” We see here promises of abundant food and drink, of freedom and light, of straight paths and easy roads, a longed for antidote to a people who marched hard roads through mountain and desert, who have suffered hunger and thirst, who have dwelt in captivity. The Lord promises to call the exiles home from the north and from the west and from Syene in Egypt, in short from all the places where the people of God have been scattered, the Lord will once more gather them in the land of promise.

This is what God’s people have been longing for. And yet…the people of Israel cannot bring themselves to believe these good promises. “But Zion said, ‘The Lord has forsaken me, my Lord has forgotten me.” The people of God are in despair. They have endured conquest, they have been forced from their homes, those who stayed behind have been occupied by a foreign power. The temple has been destroyed. It has been too much. They feel forgotten, forsaken, abandoned by God. How can they trust these beautiful new promises?

Have you ever felt forgotten by God? Have you ever wondered if God has checked out of the world, abandoned this whole enterprise? In anxiety and depression and grief, when life seems so heavy that we may just fold under it, we wonder if God has forgotten God’s promises to us. We check the news and read of war continuing to rage in Ukraine and Gaza, a devastating landslide killing hundreds in Papua New Guinea, an upcoming election that, if news reports are to be believed, may be a referendum on the future of democracy, groceries still unaffordable as rents continue to soar and mortgage rates remain high. And that says nothing of our own personal crises, of jobs lost and terrifying diagnoses, of relationships splintered beyond repair and deaths of loved ones, of depression that threatens to pull us under and chronic pain that will not relent. It can be easy to assume that perhaps God has simply walked away, left the watchpost, and turned us over to our own worst impulses. We cry out to God, and it seems like God is not answering. Are you there God? It’s me, Jessica. Are you going to do anything about all of this?

It is here, in Israel’s despair, that the Lord makes what I find to be the most hopeful promise in the whole litany. Indeed, as a mother, for me this promise is one of the most beautiful in all of Scripture. “Can a woman forget her nursing child, or show no compassion for the child of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you.” At first glance, this image of God as a nursing mother seems rather peaceful – a mother calmly and quietly rocking and nursing her babe, perhaps singing a lullaby. The baby lies sweetly in her arms, cooing and gurgling, flexing her tiny fists before passing out, sated and happy. It is gentle, and mild, and lovely.

But the reality of nursing is so much more intense than that. It is a wailing infant, it is sleeplessness as you wake at midnight and 2 and 4 and then start your day at 6. It is the mother’s body cracked and bleeding, rubbed raw from the voracious, gaping maw of her child. It is desperate shushing and swaying, begging your child to latch, to eat a little more, to sleep a little longer. It is swollen, aching breasts, pain and infection if you wait too long to respond to your baby’s needs. Nursing is both physical solidarity and physical sacrifice, a mother giving her body over to her baby for nourishment and comfort.

When God promises to attend to us as a nursing mother attends to her child, God is not just making a statement about tender, unconditional love. God is promising to orient God’s being to the needs of the child, to give God’s very self for the sake of the child, to sacrifice God’s very body. God is making those promises for us. In our despair, in our questioning, in our pain, God is promising that we are not only not forgotten, but that God’s love will nourish us and restore us.

Though the image of God as father is predominant in Scripture, there is a strong theme of mothering God, particularly in the Old Testament. God carries Israel in the womb, God births, God comforts as a mother comforting a child, God lovingly coaxes toddler Israel’s first steps, God shelters Israel as a mother bird shelters her chicks, and as here in Isaiah, God nurses her infant at her breast. Even in the Gospels, Jesus calls himself the mother hen, longing to gather all of chicks under the protection of his wings.

Medieval mystics, especially women, were particularly attuned to this language of God and Christ as mother. Julian of Norwich, the 14th century mystic and anchorite, gained a bit of a resurgence in popularity in the early days of the Covid pandemic. Herself a survivor of the Black Plague, her famous line “All shall be well and all shall be well and all manner of thing shall be well” became a bit of a lifeline for some who struggled with hope in the early days of isolation. Mother Julian certainly would have been familiar with the temptation to think God had forgotten the world. She lived in a tumultuous time in England’s history. She not only survived the Black Plague, but in her lifetime violence was widespread in the wake of a peasants’ revolt, and the seeds of reformation were being sown by John Wycliffe, upending the religious order of the day. Medieval England was chaotic, to put it mildly, and so it would have been easy for Mother Julian to cry out with Israel, “The Lord has forsaken me, my Lord has forgotten me.” But Mother Julian experienced the intimate love of a mothering God. She knew the promise of God our Mother, and indeed Christ our Mother, writing, “Jesus Christ who does good for evil is our true mother…The mother can give her child her milk to suck, but our dear mother Jesus can feed us with himself, and he does so most generously and most tenderly with the holy sacrament which is the precious food of life itself.”[[1]](#_ftn1)

Take, eat, this is my body given for you. These are the words that Christ spoke at the last supper, the words we remember every time we come to the Lord’s Table. Christ’s body, broken for us. Cracked and bleeding for us. Enduring pain for us. This is God our Mother, Christ our Mother giving his body for us, nourishing us at the breast of God, sacrificing his own body for our nourishment and comfort.

Friends, when the world feels abandoned, when we wonder where God could possibly be in our lives, let us turn with the confidence of Mother Julian to Christ our Mother, who prepares a feast for us. We are comforted and nourished by the body and blood of Christ, graciously sustained in God’s holy presence when we come to the table. And so when you eat the bread and drink the cup, may you know that you have been nourished at the very breast of God, and God has indeed not forgotten you.

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit, one God and Mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and shall be forever. Amen.

  

---

[[1]](#_ftnref1) Julian of Norwich, _Revelations of Divine Love_, Visions 59-60