[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#1|John 3,1-21]] Now there was a Pharisee named Nicodemus, a leader of the Jews.  He came to Jesus by night and said to him, "Rabbi, we know that you are a teacher who has come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with that person."  Jesus answered him, "Very truly, I tell you, no one can see the kingdom of God without being born from above."  Nicodemus said to him, "How can anyone be born after having grown old? Can one enter a second time into the mother's womb and be born?"  Jesus answered, "Very truly, I tell you, no one can enter the kingdom of God without being born of water and Spirit.  What is born of the flesh is flesh, and what is born of the Spirit is spirit.  Do not be astonished that I said to you, 'You must be born from above.'  The wind blows where it chooses, and you hear the sound of it, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit."  Nicodemus said to him, "How can these things be?"  Jesus answered him, "Are you the teacher of Israel, and yet you do not understand these things?  "Very truly, I tell you, we speak of what we know and testify to what we have seen, yet you do not receive our testimony.  If I have told you about earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you about heavenly things?  No one has ascended into heaven except the one who descended from heaven, the Son of Man.  And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up,  that whoever believes in him may have eternal life.  "For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, so that everyone who believes in him may not perish but may have eternal life.  "Indeed, God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world but in order that the world might be saved through him.  Those who believe in him are not condemned, but those who do not believe are condemned already because they have not believed in the name of the only Son of God.  And this is the judgment, that the light has come into the world, and people loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil.  For all who do evil hate the light and do not come to the light, so that their deeds may not be exposed.  But those who do what is true come to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that their deeds have been done in God."  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#2]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#3]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#4]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#5]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#6]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#7]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#8]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#9]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#10]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#11]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#12]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#13]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#14]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#15]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#16]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#17]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#18]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#19]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#20]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 3#21]]

#redemption #lent #game #play #theology-of-play

- There are very few things that mark will peg someone who grew up in the Midwest than if you ask them "do you know how to play Euchre"? 
	- I've wanted to play, but it's nearly impossible to find folks down here who know how.
	- It's similar to spades: you have a series of five cards, and one becomes a trump card.  The idea is to go around in a group of four - two teams of two, and try to win hands based on what the trump suit is.
	- This would all seem fine, but then it gets steadily more complicated.  The Jack of the suit is the top card, but then the jack of the same colored suit is the second highest card.  Then, it goes from Ace down to 9 of the selected suit.
	- And then there's different moves one makes - do you go alone?  Do you hold your bower card or play it from the start?
	- Finally, there's unique things to say... you are "in the barn" (which, of course you're in the barn.  It's the midwest) when you're one point away from victory.
	- Now, up where I'm from, we take this game seriously.  Church events of rotating teams, for instance.  And there are still games that our family relives from years ago.
	- And, listen, I've tried to teach people this game.  Some of the most brilliant people I know have buckled under the weight of Euchre, the game I played with my high school buddies at lunch because what else were we going to do?
- And here, in our text today, we're seeing Jesus trying to teach Euchre to southerners.  But to really get at this text, we need to start a little bit further in John 3.
	- We start with a conversation with Nicodemus, who comes at night to have a chat with Jesus about what he's doing.  Clearly he's impressed and gets that something's different about this guy.
	- And so he starts to ask some rational questions of Jesus, and Jesus gives some interesting responses:
		- You have to be born again, Jesus says, from above - Nicodemus understandably asks how that actually could work biologically.
		- Jesus then responds that it isn't a physical birth, but one of water and of Spirit.  Jesus is hinting at the fact that everything he's about isn't about what we are to begin with - our earthly selves - but instead there's a divine spark that changes us.
		- And again, Nicodemus seems incredibly confused - and Jesus pushes back.
		- But I think it's reasonable to feel bad for Nicodemus: he has set his life and his study into a particular practice, and now Jesus is upending that.  
	- So yeah, Nicodemus has never played this game that Jesus is talking about.  Baptism does what?  You're telling me that water and Spirit birth trumps a physical birth?  The same buckling I've seen teaching Euchre is on display between our pals Nicodemus and Jesus.
- Because when Jesus came on the scene, all the rules have changed.  This is a new game we're playing.
	- We hear John 3:16 all the time.  Almost so much that it becomes a spiritual wallpaper adorning our hearts.  Which, as may be the case, makes it so that over time, we notice it less and less.  But if we treat it as something new, we might be shocked at what we hear:
		- God loved - right from the outset, we witness a God of love.  An agape, heart love.  
		- "the world" - NRSV doesn't give us enough here.  This is the cosmos - the ordered universe.  We shouldn't limit what God loves here - it isn't just you or even just people, but it's everything.  God loved it all.
		- That love of everything causes God to relinquish Jesus.  To offer him up.
		- And that choice allowed everyone and everything to not die - that even the natural order as it was would no longer hold true.
	- What are the implications of this?  Mary McLeod Bethune, the co-founder of what would eventually become Bethune-Cookman University just down the road from us, said it like this:
		- With these words the scales fell from my eyes and the light came flooding in.  My sense of inferiority, my fear of handicaps, dropped away. “Whosoever,” it said. No Jew nor Gentile, no Catholic nor Protestant, no black nor white; just “whosoever.” It means that I, a humble Negro girl, had just as much chance as anybody in the sight and love of God. These words stored up a battery of faith and confidence and determination in my heart, which has not failed me to this day.
		- This is an entirely different arrangement of the world it had been lived then: there is no preferential group.  There is no pick and choose.  The rules to the game have been changed for good.
- That sounds beautiful, but to play this game requires us, like Nicodemus, some trouble at times.  It can be the obvious trouble of any -ism that we hold to, but it's also, as Jessica noted last week, the times where we are unaware of how we aren't playing the game well.  But again, if the game is really changed as Jesus says, than it isn't judgment that stops us.  If we're willing to learn, Jesus is there.
- What matters, it seems, is whether we choose to play the game at all.
	- And to be honest with y'all, for what way I'm a reasonable dyed in the wool PCUSA pastor that still is Reformed, this was a tricky question here in John today.
	- We hear all the time from the ghost of John Calvin about predestination - that things have already been selected... but here, it seems we have a choice.  The word we see as judgement is "krisis," which adds a nice emphasis.  Here, like Nicodemus, we can decide whether or not we think this game is worthy of our time.  
	- And moreov