[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Genesis/Gen 12#1|Gen 12,1-4]] Now the Lord said to Abram, "Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you.  I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing.  I will bless those who bless you, and the one who curses you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed."  So Abram went, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran.  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Genesis/Gen 12#2]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Genesis/Gen 12#3]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Genesis/Gen 12#4]]

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Acts/Acts 8#1|Acts 8,1-4]] <versenum id="1"/>And Saul approved of their killing him.Saul Persecutes the Church That day a severe persecution began against the church in Jerusalem, and all except the apostles were scattered throughout the countryside of Judea and Samaria.  Devout men buried Stephen and made loud lamentation over him.  But Saul was ravaging the church by entering house after house; dragging off both men and women, he committed them to prison.Philip Preaches in Samaria  Now those who were scattered went from place to place proclaiming the word.  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Acts/Acts 8#2]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Acts/Acts 8#3]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Acts/Acts 8#4]]

#immigration #race #community #relationship 

I like throughlines. Does that concept – of a throughline – register with you all? I suspect it’s one of those things that’s so intuitive that to hear it named ironically makes it sound foreign. It is, as it sounds, how a particular idea or movement or fashion or genre threads across time – changing and being nuanced along the way, but maintaining enough semblance of itself as to be trackable – and thus helps connect different parts of time. Beyond connecting time, their value is also to give us a sense of stability and security. If today’s problems, for example, have antecedents, then we have resources to see how those problems were addressed well or not well – but regardless, we have a little grist for the mill of our thinking; we have a basis for our own actions.

Not surprisingly for a faith that professes both an Old and New Testament, throughlines are really important in scripture and theology. Paul is addicted to tracing throughlines, as is evidenced by his heavy – and often liberal – use of the psalms in his letters. But Paul isn’t just creating this out of his own genius. Jesus, our Lord and Friend, cries out from the cross, “Eloi Eloi lama sabachthani,” which are the first words of Psalm 22 – “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?!?” Even with His dying breath, Jesus is tracing a throughline from Jewish hymnody to His own death – and eventual resurrection. I note the resurrection because Psalm 22 ends thusly: “Posterity will serve him; future generations will be told about the Lord, 31and proclaim his deliverance to a people yet unborn, saying that he has done it.” From forsaken to unforgettable – Jesus traces a throughline from Psalm 22 to the entirety of His own life. 

Well, I belabor this point because the next 18 or so minutes will be utterly unintelligible for you, and terribly frustrating for me, if we’re not on the same page about throughlines because the Good News for us today traces God’s repeated use of immigration. Specifically, in God’s hands, immigration is a tool of holiness. Tonight we’ll talk more about our cultural narratives around immigration – and I do hope you can attend that presentation – but for now let it suffice to say that no one really seems to be talking about connecting immigration and holiness… except maybe some of the immigrants themselves. Even more specifically, I want to claim – and then demonstrate – how every time God wants to do a new thing, immigration is involved. And not to jump to the conclusion at the outset, but if we are living in a time of nearly unprecedented immigration – not just at our southern border, but all around the world – then it should hold that we are in a time of God doing a new thing.  And if God is doing a new thing, then our present faithfulness – to say nothing of the view our children and grandchildren will hold of us – will come down to how faithfully we respond to this new thing. 

Ah! But there I am, getting ahead of myself – and ironically so when we remember that the whole point of throughlines is to watch an idea or action grow and mature over time. So, let me slow down and take us back to the beginning – Genesis 12. Genesis 12 is the call of Abram – later Abraham – to be the father of Israel. It is he and his wife Sarai – later Sarah – and their progeny who will, as the passage we heard read a moment ago makes clear, give birth to a great nation. Additionally, this great nation will be the blessing to ALL the nations of the earth. So this is an exciting passage! A new nation is being born. Blessings are being prepared. But before any of this can happen, God says to Abraham, “Go from your country and your kindred and your father’s house to the land that I will show you.” Friends, that’s immigration. Abraham has to leave his homeland for the new thing that God is going to do. 

Much of the drama that unfolds in the subsequent chapters, interestingly enough, will focus less on land and more on progeny. These are the famous stories of Isaac and Ishmael, of Jacob and Esau, of Joseph, his technicolored dream coat, and his 11 jealous brothers. And then, just to make sure we don’t lose the thread of immigration, Genesis ends not in a country called Israel, but in Egypt. There, this great nation will grow in strength and number – and as immigrants in a foreign land. 

Exodus is the next book in the canon – and I should pause here and promise that I’m not going to plod through all 66 books; I don’t want to create that sort of professional headache for my friend Adam! – and in Exodus, we once again find God doing a new thing by releasing God’s people from captivity and sending them on a 40 year journey to a “Promised Land.” 

Exodus is also a story about the healing effects of immigration because that 40-year journey was really supposed to take just a few weeks. But as a forebear to Gilligan’s Island that “three hour tour… three hour tour” continues for two generations so that those who take possession of this Promised Land will have not only been freed from slavery but also from a slave mentality. You see, early in their journey, liberated Israel started complaining and pining for their days under Pharaoh’s despotic rule, so God assures that this slave mentality won’t enter the Promised Land by giving that land to the children and grandchildren of these recently-liberated Israelites. Again, we’ll get to cultural narratives around immigration tonight, but I think we can all already see that immigration-as-healing is not one that you’ve heard the pundits rant about on any of our favorite cable news networks.  

Well, we can fast forward a bit through Israel’s claiming of the Promised Land and their federation as an empire and not just a loosely connected group of 12 tribes. We can skip past this dynastic period – a period that becomes plagued with sins of all sorts (just go read about David and Bathsheba if you need a reminder; Psalm 51 is basically the Cliff’s Notes for this season of Israel’s history) and we can find ourselves at the end of King Solomon’s reign when the internal corruption and court intrigue – it’s all very Game of Thrones-esque – leads to Israel’s vulnerability to Babylonian invasion. And what’s the result of that invasion? Exile, which is just another word for immigration. 

God narrates this exilic time best through the prophet Isaiah. Isaiah 43:15-19 is a paradoxical passage in which we hear God say the following: “I am the Lord, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. 16Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters, 17who brings out chariot and horse, army and warrior; they lie down, they cannot rise, they are extinguished, quenched like a wick: 18Do not remember the former things, or consider the things of old. 19I am about to do a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it?”

I love this passage because God traces a throughline from the Exodus story – that’s all those chariots and horses who get extinguished when the Red Sea crashes down on them – but then says, “Do not remember the former things.” I don’t like to talk this way to God, but… “Bruh! You literally just cited history!” Even still, this passage helps us to see the clear connection between this exilic immigration story and God’s pronouncement of “I am about to do a new thing.” If this entire sermon has a thesis, it’s right here, in God’s own words. And if this sermon has a challenge that it invites all of us into, it’s right here, in God’s own words, when we’re asked, “Do you not perceive it?” 

But before we answer that question, let’s skip up into the New Testament, for it is here that we learn that God’s “new thing” still involves immigration. Specifically, we’re now talking about Jesus. To begin, it may tempt credulity to say that the incarnation – the descent of God from heaven and the taking on flesh in Jesus of Nazareth – is its own immigration story; this time, the story of God’s own immigration from heaven to earth. But if all of that seems just a touch too poetic for you – I was an English major, after all, and being too poetic is still my best answer to the question, “What are you going to do with a BA in English Lit?” – then let’s deal with the literal history of Jesus’ own life. For no sooner is our Savior born then He is on His own immigration journey from Bethlehem to Egypt. 

Oh, quick aside, there can be almost no better place for Jesus to be born and then leave than Bethlehem. In Hebrew, “Beth” is “House.” So, “Beth-El” is “House of God,” since “El” is short of Elohim, one of the names for God. “Bethlehem” translates to “House of Bread.” But for our point today, Jesus leaves His “Beth” – leave His “house” – just like Abram did 42 generations before! 
So, Jesus’ earliest days are spent as an immigrant in a foreign land, which should be warning enough – especially when combined with Matthew 25 – for how we ought to go about treating immigrants today. Additionally, though the scriptures don’t speak of it much, we also have to reason that when Jesus returned from Egypt with His family and settled in Nazareth, He was an immigrant to those people too. Maybe He got there by the second grade. Well, none of those kids went through Head Start, Kindergarten, and first grade with Him. Maybe His Aramaic had a slightly Egyptian accent to it. Probably He wasn’t wearing the right fashion or had the normal haircut for Nazareth. He was, in short, an immigrant outsider, even in His historic homeland. Take a moment later today and re-paint the picture you have of Jesus in your head as an immigrant. Your theology will be better for this exercise. 

And now, jumping over a great deal of important material, we come at last to our Acts 8 passage. Acts 8 takes place immediately following the stoning of Stephen, the Christian Church’s first martyr for the faith. Deacon Stephen died as Christ died. Acts 7:59-60 read: “While they were stoning Stephen, he prayed, ‘Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.’ 60Then he knelt down and cried out in a loud voice, ‘Lord, do not hold this sin against them.’ When he had said this, he died.” Both giving over his spirit and beseeching God for grace are hallmarks of Jesus’ own crucifixion. It is a beautiful death, if we’ve let our definition of beauty be defined by the life of Christ. But all this beauty should not delude us from seeing the threats still at work, which is where Acts 8 picks up. 

In our reading, we learn that Paul – still a persecutor of the Church at this point – has only been emboldened by Stephen’s blood, and a great persecution of the faithful breaks out. As a result, they flee. “All except the apostles were scattered throughout the countryside of Judea and Samaria” is how Acts narrates this trauma. But that reference to “Judea and Samaria” also harkens back to Acts 1:11 in which Jesus, just as He is about to ascend to the right hand of God the Father, commissions the disciples to go from Jerusalem to Judea to Samaria and to the ends of the earth. And though these are Jesus’ last earthly words, those remaining 11 disciples and His other followers do not heed them. Instead, they return to the Temple and keep growing the church exclusively in Jerusalem. 

Does this mean, then, that God uses Paul’s persecution of the church as a way of incentivizing and achieving God’s command to go to “Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth”? That’s a hard claim to stomach – after all, who wants to worship a God who utilizes pain and sin in such a way! – but even if this is not divinely inspired, we still see the early church being driven by persecution into immigration. Friends, this is the story of modern immigration. Those immigrants amassed at our border, seeking refuge, are there because of persecution in their homelands. 

And yet, maybe it is more than just a story about persecution and scrappy resiliency. Because I want to trace this throughline from Abraham to Jesus to right now. I want to say that the God who does a “new thing” that always includes immigration might just be sending the salvation of the American Church to our borders. During my travels to the border in April of this year, I was shocked to discover that approximately 90-percent of the immigrants we met were Christians. I shouldn’t have been surprised, but I’m a dumb American, so here we are. After all, Mexico, Central America, and South America are largely Catholic and Pentecostal countries. Few indigenous religions have any potency. So, it’s no surprise that those arriving at our southern border share baptism, faith, and Lord with us. 

Did you know that since the PCUSA was created in 1983 via reunification of the southern and northern churches that we have NEVER had a single year of growth as a denomination? That’s right, the chart perpetually slopes downward. Some years the slope is a bunny hill; other years it is a Black Diamond descent, but never once have we had a year where we grew by even a single member. Now at a mere 1.1 million people – or roughly 0.3-percent of the U.S. population – the PCUSA is clearly dying.  
What if? What if those immigrants – who are already Christians – are a gift God is sending to our church? What if? What if numerical growth is dependent upon our faithfulness in receiving “the alien” – to use Old Testament language that’s definitely out of vogue today! – into our churches? What if? What if we’ve lost the thread that serves as a throughline in our faith to such a degree that we’ll never worship – as I’ve titled this sermon – “The Immigrant God” if we can’t first love our immigrant neighbor? 

Far from a tragedy amassing at our borders, I see a divinely inspired gift and blessing. And to make sure this sermon is part of God’s immigrant throughline, let me end this way: “I am about to do a new thing; now it springs forth, do you not perceive it?”

In the name of the Father, and of the Immigrant Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. 
