[[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/Acts/Acts 2#43|Acts 2,43-47]] 
Awe came upon everyone because many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. 
All who believed were together and had all things in common; 
they would sell their possessions and goods and distribute the proceeds to all, as any had need. 
Day by day, as they spent much time together in the temple, they broke bread at home and ate their food with glad and generous hearts, 
praising God and having the goodwill of all the people. And day by day the Lord added to their number those who were being saved.
[[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/Acts/Acts 2#44]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/Acts/Acts 2#45]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/Acts/Acts 2#46]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/Acts/Acts 2#47]]
[[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#34|John 6,34-42]] 
They said to him, "Sir, give us this bread always." 
Jesus said to them, "I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me will never be hungry, and whoever believes in me will never be thirsty. 
But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe. 
Everything that the Father gives me will come to me, and anyone who comes to me I will never drive away, 
for I have come down from heaven not to do my own will but the will of him who sent me. 
And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me but raise it up on the last day. 
This is indeed the will of my Father, that all who see the Son and believe in him may have eternal life, and I will raise them up on the last day." 
Then the Jews began to complain about him because he said, "I am the bread that came down from heaven." 
They were saying, "Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How can he now say, 'I have come down from heaven'?" 
[[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#35]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#36]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#37]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#38]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#39]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#40]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#41]][[_Resources/Bible/NRSVUE/John/John 6#42]]
- Grace and peace from SJPC
	- The last four years have been a practice of resurrection 
	- I am mindful of how this place, these people, have shaped me and shaped the churches I've served, the communities I'm a part of.  We all contain each other, carry one another, to where we live - it's the beauty of the body of Christ in action.  And I would take up far too much time in my thanks and praise to this place, and how it shaped me and so many others to live into our callings.
	- And coming back, I've not been able to get out of my mind the kairos here.  
	- Now, it's a tricky word to translate into English, but it's mostly about the appointed time, the fullest now, contrasted to the perpetual movement of chronos.
- Being with friends when I got here, felt like we'd never stopped.  But it had been years since we'd been together.
	- Certainly though, things are far different than what they were when we were here together on this campus.  Salt and peppered heads of hair, children existing, growing, buildings razed and rebuilt - a Chik-fil-a?  In what feels like such a short time the students here are no longer people I could have gone to college with but now people who could be my children and yet here still is ministry and love abounding.
	- Because I think the core - the *kairos* - is still as there as it's been: wonders everywhere, things to have in common, giving and distributing, breaking bread with glad and generous hearts.  The abundant moment is the story of early Acts, a Spirit-filled community against all odds caring, supporting, worshipping. 
	- Which would lead me to think that whatever we can do as faithful people to steward kairos.  
- John 6 offers us a glimpse fuels our stewardship and what generates kairos: Christ's invitation.
	- The crowd who has followed Jesus away from where they had just been fed, gathering in boats to meet him again, want to receive this always.  Which, honestly, a perpetual source of dinner sounds fantastic.  But there is a misunderstanding here: the crowd seems to want the physical needs supplied, but Jesus offers more.
	- In his straightforward reply, Jesus says he is the bread of life - the word here, *zoe*, means a life of the highest blessing.  Not just physical needs supplied, it seems, but the very best of what life can be here in earth.  That is what Jesus offers.
	- And it seem contingent on only two things: that people come towards Jesus, and that they trust him, which is a better way to think about "believe" in the text.  Should someone do that, they won't be forced out.
	- There is such a loving elegance to this exchange - for the highest and best - for *kairos* - the barrier to entry is low: just show up and have some trust.  It's open, inclusive, and not bound by a series of additional requirements.  And it will overcome death, decay, and the scarcity of a broken world: what is offered is resurrection.  Which makes moments with the beloved community years and decades apart feel like yesterday make sense.  Big, heart-to-heart hugs after so long are glimpses of the resurrection - the bread of life. 
- It's so interesting, of course, that with all the beauty of this gospel message - of a Christ who will abundantly provide for those who come to the feast - there's always someone who want to poke the holes in it.
	- John employs the word "Jews" for detractors, so perhaps here, let's just extend it out to those who are critical instead.
	- And their retort - never mind that earlier many of these folks witness the miracle of loaves and fishes multiplied, never mind that according to John literally the day before this conversation Jesus was walking on water, all that the detractors can arrive at is, basically "yeah, this doesn't make any sense to me."  Which, really, has very little - if anything - with what Jesus is saying, and much more about the limited imagination and ability to look at a fuller now and the miracles it brings to life.  Joey's kid can't be abundance.  Mary's kid can't be heaven-sent.
	- It will always be tempting to fall within our own limited, protected frameworks and resist the abundance of an expansive gospel that simply asks those who hear to approach, and to trust that this Jesus guy might be someone who himself embodies kairos.
- I hope then, it's not a difficult jump to see that what First Covenant has done what this ministry partnership has done, is respond and steward an affirmative response to that expansive gospel... to create a space where all can just come and trust.
	- I so often think about the sheer ridiculousness of even my own experience in 2005-2008 on paper.  Here I was, a kid raised in the fundamentalist Church of Christ tradition, remembering a grandfather as pastor who said on more than one occasion that he'd write me out the will should I marry a Catholic girl in a way that I was never convinced whether he was joking or not now ministering to Catholic and Protestant students alike in a reformed campus ministry organization ever more convinced over time of the Reformed tradition as a more cohesive worldview.  I shouldn't have been here.  I shouldn't have been welcome.
	- But what happened off the paper was constant and perpetual invitation - come to me, and you won't be hungry.  Trust us that we will love you as you are, and you won't thirst.  I look around the room at friends who allowed me to learn, to try, to succeed and fail, but most of all, to witness kairos.  And sure, I know for a fact we didn't agree.  We're weren't.  But that wasn't the point.  What was the point was watching how being together and having so much in common could create goodness and generosity.
	- And with the heaviest of hearts, I find myself in a state still of unbelief that between the 40th year of celebration and the 50th year of celebration, the CCO is no longer a member of this beloved feast.
		- I grieve that because my theological convictions have made compel me to welcome marginalized folks into full community and, for instance, celebrate when God's provenance is on my GLBTQ+ friends marriages that I would no longer be able to be a part of their ministry, and as such, would not have had this kairos.  That some of my closest friends that I love as kin would not be welcome because of who they are.
		- And I know we might not all agree there.  But the difference, as it should be, is resisting such limited human-bound logic to deny what the richness of the beloved community finding what is common is the gospel enacted in the world.  And in the end I feel sorry good people who would rather walk away than celebrate.  They don't get to see what we see, live what we live here in something that shouldn't exist on paper... but when did the Father's will ever entirely fit within the limits of our stubborn unbelief that feeds scarcity in our imaginations?
	- The Kirk House is not the same as it was 50 years ago.  First Covenant is not the same as it was 20 years ago.  Gannon isn't the same it was 10 years ago.  And we are not the same from one moment to the next.  But *kairos* is not bound by the movement of *chronos*.  Kairos, full of abundance, offering a chance to be around one another with glad and joyful hearts at all times is woven into the sinews of our eternal hearts, carried beyond this space, offering the same as it did as John writes it.
- So if there's anything I can leave you with - just one person amongst so many who was part of this community, who asked Christ for sustenance but instead found resurrection here, and carry all of it with me to help others point to resurrection - is that what you've done here is so, so needed, and so, so special.  And I hope you know that.  I hope you don't look around and wonder if it's worth it.  That instead, you allow anyone and everyone the chance to come and learn to trust.  There, in that space, in the sacred bounds of a discipleship house, comes the best of what life can become, and is eternal.  It's *kairos*.  In the name of Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; one God, mother of us all.  Amen.