#resurrection #miracle #salvation #witness #easter 


[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 24]]
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Acts/Acts 3]]

Several years ago Alice Roberts, a British academic and humanist, tweeted on Good Friday: “Just a little reminder today. Dead people – don’t come back to life.” It was intended as a dig at the resurrection, and it ignited a firestorm on twitter, as these things sometimes do. But the thing is…she’s right. Dead people don’t come back to life. Someone can’t be dead for three days, and then get up and walk out of their grave, no problem. As my two-year old would say, “It’s impossible!

Now, the Queen of Hearts in _Through the Looking Glass_ declares that sometimes she believes in as many as six impossible things before breakfast. I doubt I have ever mustered the imagination to believe six impossible things in a day, but I do try as a regular practice to believe this one impossible thing every day: that this man Jesus died and then three days later came back to life. Not some weird spirit ghost being, but Jesus himself, the same person, in the same body, raised from the dead. We talk about this in church every year, so it can become a bit stale or expected, but think about what a claim that is. And yet, this quite frankly ludicrous story is the one we are going with in the Christian church. This impossible story is the story to which I am staking my life and livelihood.

Peter, Jesus’s disciple and a pillar of the early church, also believed this one impossible thing. In fact, it became the orienting point of his life. He saw his friend die, and then he saw that same man alive. Luke tells us that Jesus offered the disciples the holes in his hands and his feet as evidence that he was not the ghost of Jesus, but in fact the same flesh and blood man they saw crucified. And as if to further prove Jesus’s humanness, this Jesus is hungry. This is actually a kind of hilarious but oh so very human thing that pops up in the post-resurrection accounts in both Luke and John. In our passage today he eats some broiled fish; in John he grills fish on the beach. Resurrected Jesus is hungry. And this tells us something important, because as we all know from Harry Potter ghosts don’t need to eat, but flesh and blood humans do.

Peter has seen the resurrected Jesus. He is a witness to this impossible thing. And what does he do as a witness? He acts upon the thing he has seen, and he tells people about it. The fun thing about having this story from the end of Luke’s Gospel paired together with a story from the beginning of Acts is that we are actually reading one continuous story. Luke and Acts were written together by the same author, Luke, to his correspondent Theophilus, and they are intended to function together as an origin story of the Jesus movement. The Gospel is volume 1, and it tells us about the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Acts continues the story in Volume 2, focusing on the work of the disciples to share the way of Jesus throughout Jerusalem and Judea and the Roman Empire. Our story in Luke is one of the culminating moments of Volume 1, in which the resurrected Jesus appears to the disciples, including Peter. He explains the bombshell that has dropped in their lives which is his own crucifixion and resurrection. By way of explanation, he says, “Thus it is written, that the Messiah is to suffer and to rise from the dead on the third day, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins is to be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things.” Jesus here is charging the disciples, as witnesses, to be the ones who proclaim repentance and forgiveness of sins in Jesus’ name, to all nations, starting with Jerusalem. He is saying, “Hey, you have seen the impossible thing with your own eyes, you now understand what it means, or you’re starting to. Now go, tell everyone, include everyone in this wild, impossible act of redemption.”

The story of the book of Acts is in many ways the story of the early followers of Jesus doing just that. Starting in Jerusalem and then throughout the nations, or at least the Roman Empire, they proclaim the Good News in Jesus’s name. And so here in Acts 3, that’s exactly what Peter is doing. He is in the temple, because Peter is still a good Jew. He doesn’t see the way of Jesus as somehow erasing his Jewishness, and so on this particular day he and John show up in the temple to pray as they always would. On the way in, they see a man who has been lame his whole life laying at one of the entrances to the temple asking for alms. You get the sense that this man is at the temple gate often – people know him and recognize him. It’s quite possible Peter and John have seen him before, maybe even thrown some coins his way before. On this day, though, something prompts them to turn to the man and say to him, “Hey, we don’t have any money, but we do have something we can give you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, stand up and walk.” And remarkably, he does. He jumps up and walks right into the temple. Acts tells us he was “walking and leaping and praising God.” Everyone who is already in the temple sees this commotion, and they know this guy. They passed him on the way in. They’ve seen him day in and day out. They are blown away and full of questions. What in the world just happened? Didn’t we just see him? And he definitely wasn’t walking then. How did this happen??? And that is when Peter launches into his speech that is our passage today.

“You want to know what just happened?” Peter says. “It wasn’t us. We didn’t make this guy walk under our own power. It was God, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God you and I know and worship, working through the resurrected Righteous One, Jesus, whom you saw killed and who was raised from the dead. We are witnesses! The very name of Jesus has restored this man, and Jesus can restore you, too. Repent, turn to God.” Woo boy!

Peter is a witness. Peter is a witness to the resurrection. He is a witness to the power of God revealed in Jesus Christ. He is a witness to salvation. And through the act of healing that he and John perform in Christ’s name, they make everyone in the temple a witness, too. The question is, what will these witnesses do? Will they step into salvation, or will they explain away what they just saw and go about their business?

And what did they just see? They saw a man healed, yes. They saw a person they have known since birth was unable to walk, run and leap into the temple. But more importantly, they saw someone restored to community. This man has laid at the entrance to the temple every day, asking for help. Notice he has not been carried into the temple. He is always on the outside, perhaps a recipient of mercy and kindness, sure, but never a recipient of belonging. The most sacred gathering place of his community is inaccessible to him because he cannot walk through the gate.

When Jesus, through Peter and John, heals this man, he is not simply given the ability to walk. He is granted inclusion. He is given the dignity of choosing to cross the threshold of the temple and gathering with the Jews of Jerusalem. According to Luke scholar Joel Green, this is the essence of salvation in Luke’s understanding of the Gospel: salvation initiates us into the Christ-centered community. It is always an act of inclusion and belonging. For the lame man, who has always been on the outside, it is an invitation to walk through the gate under his own willpower, to join his community in worship. For the people, and particularly the leaders, of the temple, who were at odds with Jesus in his life and complicit in his death, who had a hand in the exclusion of this man who now stands among them praising God, it is an invitation to repent of their wrongdoing and walk as renewed and forgiven people into the life of the beloved community of Christ-followers.

Salvation doesn’t restore us for the sake of restoration, doesn’t forgive us so that we can just say we are forgiven. Salvation is always for the sake of community. We who have glimpsed something of the resurrected Christ have been drawn into the community that Jesus Christ founded and sustains, the community of love, of belonging, of radical justice, of care for neighbor, a community that welcomes us in and then orients us back out as witnesses to the corner of the world we are in.

I am a witness. I have caught little peeks at the resurrection, and I cannot unsee them. I have seen the resurrection every time we baptize a baby and name them as God’s own. I have seen the resurrection in the three months of meals that got delivered to my home after my own baby was born. I have seen the resurrection in the birds and bees and butterflies that make my backyard teem with life, even as we read reports every day of impending ecological doom. I have seen the resurrection in the raucous laughter of my small group, women who have journeyed together for a decade over all of life’s joys and sorrows and who continue to show up for one another day after day. I have seen the resurrection in the face of an 11 year old boy who had runaway from a care home I volunteered at overseas, and then was joyously welcomed back home on Pentecost. I have seen the resurrection in the joyous community at JASMYN, the local LGBTQ youth center, where kids who have been kicked out of their own homes are included in a raucous community of their peers. I have seen the resurrection in this church, this vibrant alive church that stood that stood at the brink, sold of its property, knocked down its buildings, and chose to believe that the Spirit could breathe new life into this congregation. Friends, if I really sit down and think about it, I can name a million ways I have seen the resurrection. I am a witness. What about you? You, too, are a witness. Where have you seen the resurrection?

And what are we going to do about it? Will we, like Peter and John, name what we have seen, and claim the power of the resurrection for healing and restoration and belonging in our community, the power of the resurrection for salvation? Will we let the fact that we have witnessed one impossible thing that re-oriented the whole world become the foundation to imagine more impossible resurrection in our community? Will we seek to expand the belonging in our community, inviting others into the hopeful, beautiful future God is building even here and even now? Or will we shake our heads at the impossible thing and say, “No, that couldn’t have been it. I must have been mistaken. Dead people don’t come back to life.”

If you want to practice being a witness to the impossible thing, we have an invitation to practice tomorrow. Tomorrow evening, people of faith across Jacksonville will gather together at Abyssinia Baptist church for ICARE’s Nehemiah Assebmly. Among other things, we will ask our officials to take action to end gun violence in Jacksonville. Now this is no small task. In recent years Jacksonville has the dishonor of having the highest homicide rate in Florida, and last year, there were only 2 weeks of the whole year that someone was not murdered. Well over 300 people were shot in 2023 in our city. We have a violent crime problem in Jacksonville. Specifically, we have a gun violence problem in Jacksonville. Solving that problem, even reducing the problem, feels impossible. I get it. I feel it. I don’t really know the solution. But here’s the deal, friends: we are witnesses to the impossible. We have a chance to be a witness tomorrow, to fight for a Christ-centered community of safety and peace and belonging right here in Jacksonville.

And this is just one way that we can be witnesses. I don’t need to list for you all the ways things are not as we wish they were, in our neighborhood, in our state, in our nation, in our world. But we are people of the resurrection. We are witnesses. We can stand in the power and calling of the resurrected and ascended Jesus Christ and work for a better world. We can witness the millions of ways the resurrection is already at work, and we can join in. So how about it, friends. Can I get a witness?

In the name of the father, the son, and the holy spirit, one God and mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be forever. Amen.