**I love Christmas. I love everything about it, the warm cozy magic of it. There’s the lights and the decorations – I live in Avondale, and the luminaria is just the most magical night in our neighborhood. I love the wintery images of softly falling snow, even if here in Florida I don’t ever get to actually walk in that snow. I love curling up by the fireplace with a mug of tea and a book. I love every Christmas song ever written – except the Paul McCartney one (sorry friends). As far as I’m concerned, I cannot hear Mariah Carey sing  “All I Want for Christmas is You” enough times in December. I absolutely watched her Christmas special a couple of years ago. And I love a good Christmas movie, from the classics to the cringey. My mom and I have ordered matching White Christmas themed sweatshirts this year. I have watched all the Christmas Princess movies on Netflix. Give me a hallmark Christmas movie with it small town feels and cozy Christmas baking and city woman falls for failing innkeeper vibes, and I am here for every bit of it.**

Use TikTok Video Here

Interesting that two pastors could see Christmas media so differently. But that's exactly where we might find something important about Advent. While Jessica finds hope in the guaranteed happy ending, I find truth in the messy middle. Consider A Charlie Brown Christmas... It’s not as if that special doesn’t have its lovely Christmas-y moments: Linus telling the Christmas story on stage, Charlie Brown having his friends rally around him.  But let’s not forget everything that happens before that moment.  The reason why Linus stops to tell the story is because of all of the bickering that happens as they’re trying to prepare for a play.  Charlie Brown’s friends help him because he picked just about the worst possible Christmas Tree possible - and “friends” could be a relative term: one of my favorite quotes right from the beginning of the special is “of all the Charlie Browns in the world, you are the Charlie Brown-iest.”  And his complaint?  Commercialism in Christmas!

All of that, for me, even with the end, is a bit more true to form.  It’s why I pass the Hallmark channel every year - when everything is all over the top, all schmaltz, it becomes too unrealistic and too perfect, which makes it just too inauthentic.  I can’t suspend my disbelief up that high in the rafters.

**In the end, though, isn't that what we want? Not the inauthenticity, of course, but the promise that things will all work out. We know what the world is like, heck even a Hallmark movie acknowledges what the world is like. Yes, they gloss over it quickly, but there are usually some pretty tragic things that lead up to that ultimate happy ending - relationships soured, death in the family, business failing. But to watch a cheesy Christmas movie is just for a couple hours to live into a world where things really do work out, where we really do get our happy endings. And isn't that something we all crave, deep down, a story that resolves with joy, a story that ends with a world as it should be?**

There’s a bit of truth to that. After all, we’ve been talking all Advent about anticipation—the idea of allowing the future to find itself in the nooks and crannies of the present.  

But the more you start to think about the practical side of that - the more you begin to think about how abstract the future can be.  Alfred North Whitehead’s quote sounds lovely - but what future am I considering?  And how much does my present shape what I see in the future?  If I’m thinking about, for instance, the potential for a really awkward family Christmas dinner because of the last conversation I had with my parents, well, then I’m anticipating something unenjoyable.  So, a Hallmark movie makes that task a little more straightforward - just the phrase itself elicits a guarantee: no matter what, the magical ending will happen.  It is anticipation set to easy mode: because we know that all-to-perfect ending, we can find it in all the over-the-top beginning and middle - no matter what, all that we’re hoping for, finding peace in, and loving will bring us joy.

So we can take on the grandmother in hospice, the first Christmas without dad, the suddenly deployed spouse on Christmas Eve, and the Christmas tree that suddenly loses all its needles immediately after leaving the tree lot.  And it’s especially true if you’ve watched the story again and again (because aren’t Hallmark Movies just the fill-in-the-blank MadLib version of television?): you’ve built an eye, an ear, and a heart for anticipation.

I wonder if our Advent story is the same... and that's taking a lot for me to say, because, trust me, the eye-rolling feeling I have for these movies is not just an act for this sermon.  But, as the week has gone by, I've tried to make a little bit more peace with it and start to see how, yeah, there really might just be some good to it and some real parallels to where we at in this season.  In Advent, we're just beginning to tell the story: the wide-panned camera on the crane slowly descends upon the town square, and we're starting to catch glimpses of a story we’ve known the ending of, but we’re only just beginning again.


**The people of Israel certainly lived the Advent part of the story. Like those struggling to find authenticity in our Christmas celebrations, they had nothing but the promises, the glimmer of something different, the sense that perhaps something might shift. Our Micah text today reminds us that the Advent promises are not made in a vacuum, or in a cheery land where all is already well. These promises are made in the real world, a world where people are displaced, where violence, famine, and disease rip communities apart, where the future looks bleak. Micah reminds us that the Christmas story is exactly for everyone who has not heard good news this week, for whom the hope of good news is just a bridge too far to believe in.**

**The promises we heard this morning in Micah were given to a people in exile, a people who had been ripped from their homes after a protracted siege and occupied by foreign powers. These are promises for a people longing for a glimmer of something better in a world full of sorrows, for the tiniest sign that God might still be at work, might still care, might still be up to something in the world.**

**What they hear is that the thing they are longing for will come from the least expected of places. Yes God will restore the people of Israel, and yes it will be through the kingly line of Judah, but it will arise from the least significant part of the tribe of Judah. I love this tender little phrase, “You, O Bethlehem of Ephrathah, who are one of the little clans of Judah.” And this, this little one, is where the hoped for ruler will come from, the one who will restore the people, who will return them home, who will shepherd God’s flock to the glory of God.**

**Think about how wonderful and preposterous this promise is. The people of God are looking for a show of might and strength, they are looking to the big players, the strongmen, the courtly diplomats, the great scholars and thinkers, anyone of prominence – surely that is who God will work through. And the Lord redirects their gaze to the small things of Israel, a reminder that God has always worked in the unexpected places. From a barren couple in their 90s birthing the people of Israel, to a destitute foreign widow becoming the mother of the line of kings, from a baby sent down a river in a basket of reeds leading the people out of slavery to a little shepherd boy slaying a giant to, God has always been at work in Israel raising up the lowly, showing up where God has no business being, transforming the world from the edges. This is the Advent promise, the promise that hope, peace, love, and joy, will show up in the places we least expect it.**

And speaking of unexpected places, this thought frames our Gospel perfectly, as we meet Mary rushing off to see Elizabeth. And it's important to remember that these two women are, at least culturally, of no real significance. Like Bethlehem itself, they would have been overlooked, dismissed. And yet, just as God chose the smallest clan for the greatest promise, these women become active participants in salvation history. They don't just receive the promise - they embody it, celebrate it, proclaim it. Elizabeth's question 'Why has this happened to me?' isn't just humility - it's wonder at how God continues to work through the unexpected...  

But you'd think that for this pivotal moment in salvation history - the Messiah being born into the world - there'd be a bit more pomp and circumstance: the baby Jesus being lifted up in the air Lion King style right on the front steps of the palace for all the world to see. But instead, God continues the pattern we saw in Micah: choosing the small, the overlooked, the unexpected.  It’s the story of two immigrant women out in the sticks of Judea who have - against everything we would believe otherwise - have the agency to be with God in God’s decision to bring forth the Advent promise in such a small, insignificant fashion that should we not know the ending we’d miss the future in the crannies in the present.

But Mary knows - see her Magnificat: note how so many of the verbs attributed to God are in past tense - in the Greek aorist, indicating completed action.  For Francois Bovon, the author of the Heremneia commentary on Luke, it left him to pose an interesting question: “In sum, is this hymn a genuine praise to God for help granted, or a hidden prophecy of hoped-for salvation?”

Clearly, Bovon didn’t watch Hallmark movies, because I think the answer is just “yes.”  That’s the gift of anticipation.  Of at times being so certain of the ways God works in the small, in the seeking, in clear-as-day-just-have-to-say-the-channel ending that we can be witness see all of the mess of be beginning and middle because yes.  Yes the right thing will happen.  Yes it will happen in the unexpected, miraculous way.  Over and over, the answer is yes. 

This is what hearts crave, what we want, why we watch the movies, why we pine for the snowglobed visions of all being frosty and bright.

**But this is also why we avoid them, because they don't feel honest. They are too sanitary, too sentimental, they wrap up too neatly and they don't match the world as we know it, where happy endings are far from guaranteed.  Like the exiles hearing Micah's promise, we struggle to believe good news can come from such unlikely places.**

The problem comes when we choose to sit on the sidelines, let the movie unfold rather than wade into the action. Like Elizabeth, who could have dismissed Mary's visit as insignificant, we watch, we hope, we dream, and then we turn our faces away... but Just as God chose Bethlehem, the least of the clans of Judah, God chooses us - in all our messiness - to be part of this story.

**or we just live into the sentimentality, let the twinkling lights and soft music wash over us, too afraid to expose our hearts to the world and face reality as it is, too afraid to get our hands dirty for the promise of Incarnation.**

And the issue is that we very well prefer to be observers than participants because we don't truly believe that this story is for us.  Always has been for us, and that we ourselves can be active participants, wading through manger manure, smelling all of the muskiness of the awful moment, singing the same lofty glories to God as Mary does in the Magnificant, Elizabeth still saying "who am I - why would the Lord and his mother visit me?” and God responds "who else, but you?"

**What would happen if, between today and Tuesday, we allowed ourselves to stare clear-eyed into the world, with all of its heartbreak and disappointment, with all of the fear and uncertainty, to see the squalor of the nativity scene that matches the squalor of our world** 

and in the midst of it, to find the small cranny of Bethlehem where God is promising resolution - almost too good to be believed.  And for a moment, witness, participate, and celebrate.  Be kissed by the long lost love from high school.  Find the Christ child, ready to be born, and sit in joyful wonder, for what God is still doing in the most expected of places.


