[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#20|John 12,20-33]] 
Now among those who went up to worship at the festival **were some Greeks**.  They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and said to him, "Sir, we wish to see Jesus."  Philip went and told Andrew, then Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus.  Jesus answered them, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.  Very truly, I tell you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains just a single grain, but if it dies it bears much fruit.  Those who love their life lose it, and those who hate their life in this world will keep it for eternal life.  Whoever serves me must follow me, and where I am, there will my servant be also. Whoever serves me, the Father will honor.  

"Now my soul is troubled. And what should I say: 'Father, save me from this hour'? No, it is for this reason that I have come to this hour.  Father, glorify your name." Then a voice came from heaven, "I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again."  *The crowd standing there heard it and said that it was thunder. Others said, "An angel has spoken to him."  Jesus answered, "This voice has come for your sake, not for mine.*  Now is the judgment of this world; now the ruler of this world will be driven out.  And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."  He said this to indicate the kind of death he was to die.  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#21]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#22]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#23]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#24]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#25]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#26]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#27]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#28]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#29]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#30]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#31]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#32]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#33]]

TSWBAT: We're back in wilderness to hear God's voice.

- We're coming to the point of our Lenten season where we start to make the turn, and head towards holy week.
- And during this season, we've worked to think about the stripping away of things to get to the urgency of this time - that the Kingdom is at hand.  In the first sermon of the season, I said:
	- Our journey together through Lent and the rest of the year with Mark conveys the immediacy and importance of what is happening here with Jesus.  We can almost feel breathless with all of the "and then, and then, and then..." but in a world that is hurting where so many need to know that justice is coming, how could we be anything else but breathless?
	- Our hearts crave a change - to have faith in good tidings... not in a world damned to destruction.
	- And yes, this Spirit will cause us to go into wilderness: the places where others are wandering, seeking, needing to hear the same.  The wildnerness is the thin space of folks wearing camel skins and eating locusts - certainly not the staid walls of churches throughout the world.  But when we go, when we meet the Accuser and speak the same words we heard booming as we approached the baptismal waters, we speak the same hope.  And just as the accuser vanishes then, so will the angels attend to us.
- And here, today, we return back to this feeling of the wilderness.  
- John invites us i