If you have been hanging around churches for some time, particularly if you are a woman, you have probably encountered the infamous Proverbs 31 woman. She often gets trotted out on Mothers Day and at women’s Bible studies. She is a receptacle for all of our cultural views about womanhood and wifehood and motherhood. For some, she is a shining example to strive for, a wife, a mother, a business owner, almost a Queen Midas, with everything she touches turning to gold. For others, she is an albatross around the neck, a set of weighty and unrealistic expectations setting women up to fail. For some she is a paragon of liberation, successfully running the household and the business, and for others she is a tool of the patriarchy, a trap that tells women they are only successful if they are wives and mothers who do all the work while their husbands lollygag at the city gate, shooting the breeze with friends.

Yet what if I told you that this poem, about the worthy woman, the capable wife is not actually exclusively, or even primarily, for or about women? This “worthy woman” is not an instruction manual for how to be the perfect woman, the perfect wife, or the perfect mother. Rather, it is a snapshot of what life is like for those who dwell in the household of wisdom.

Proverbs opens over its first 8 chapters and some change by introducing us to Lady Wisdom. In the very first chapter of proverbs, a king instructs his son to turn his ear to wisdom, telling us, “Wisdom cries out in the street; in the squares she raises her voice.” For the next 8 chapters we learn about Lady Wisdom, whom we met in Pastor Adam’s sermon last week. He reminded us of what happens to those who reject the invitation of wisdom, how our best laid plans will turn to dust if we do not heed her cry. In chapter 9, just before entering into what we think of as the heart of proverbs, all those pithy little sayings, we are invited into the home of Wisdom:

Wisdom has built her house, she has hewn her seven pillars. She has slaughtered her animals, she has mixed her wine, she has also set her table. She has sent out her servant-girls, she calls from the highest places in the town, “You that are simple, turn in here!” To those without sense, she says, “Come, eat of my bread and drink of the wine I have mixed. Lay aside immaturity, and live, and walk in the way of insight.”

Fast forward to Proverbs 31, and we see the symbol of Lady Wisdom carried forward in the form of the capable wife. Just as Jesus used parables in his teachings, we can read this story as a parable for life with wisdom. Here we have a portrait of one who has heeded wisdom’s call, taken her invitation, and chosen to dwell in her household. And think about if you are the husband of this woman – what a good life. Your family is well cared for, as is all of your household, your staff, your extended family, your neighbors. There is plenty and abundance. You are warm in winter. You are able to tend to the important matters of adjudicating city life at the gate, because of course you dwell with wisdom, and so you can share that in difficult community matters. To dwell with Lady Wisdom does indeed seem to be a sweet life.

But y’all, Lady Wisdom is working hard. And so I am reminded of Jesus’s admonishment to James and John: “Whoever wants to be first must be last of all and servant of all.” The righteous life appears to also be the life of wisdom. And life with wisdom is indeed a sweet life, but it is not without some work and care. The members of wisdom’s household are not just sitting around doing nothing. Her family is working the vineyard and helping weave the cloth, her servants girls are serving the household and community, her husband is settling disputes and adjudicating city life. And so we must heed the work of the worthy woman of Proverbs 31 alongside this reminder from Jesus. What is required of us to dwell with wisdom?

What stands out to me when I read this passage of Proverbs is how much the worthy woman’s work is oriented outside of herself. She does her family good, not harm. She provides food for her household and good work for members of the extended household. She opens her hands to the poor and reaches out to the needy. She clothes her household well for all seasons. Fully nine of the 21 verses describing this woman are oriented toward people other than herself. What this tells me is that a life dwelling with wisdom is a life lived for the sake of the other. In the ancient Israelite world, the household was the building block of the community. Unlike our idea of households today, Israelite households were expansive – they would have included not only parents and children, but also extended family, servants, hired hands, and other household employees, perhaps even people in need in the community. For a wealthy family, such as the one this woman appears to belong to, the household would have been extensive, probably involving dozens and dozens of people. For this woman to shepherd the household well didn’t just mean her family was well taken care of but that there was a level of care and stability present in the community at large because of the stability and care present in this large and significant household. And I imagine that the capable wife’s model would pervade her household – members of the household would also care for the other because that is the life and care modeled by their matriarch. And so I think the key hallmark of a life lived in the household of wisdom is a life marked by service to and care for others. Remember, again, that the first shall be last and servant of all.

When I think of people who have dwelt in the household of wisdom, the first person that comes to mind is my great grandmother, Grandma Stieglitz. I never met Grandma Stieglitz, but I grew up hearing stories of her from my grandmother and my mother. Grandma Stieglitz was a nurse by training, and her life exuded care for her neighbor. During the Great Depression, Grandma Stieglitz made sure every child on the street had a bath and would provide medical care to the neighbors with no thought to payment. Often she was repaid in eggs or potatoes, whatever small extras people might have on hand. And her definition of “neighbor” was pretty broad. Grandma Stieglitz lived near the railroad tracks in town, and my grandma recounted coming home from school many days as a young child and finding a stranger eating on the porch. Word had gotten out amongst folks riding the rails that you could stop off at a house in Morton and get a hot meal, no questions asked. As a mother myself, it is hard to imagine welcoming literally anyone who knocked on my door to enjoy a meal at my home, and yet as far as I know, no one ever took advantage of her hospitality. Grandma Stieglitz dwelt with wisdom, she trusted that an ethic of service and hospitality would guide her in the world, and she, her family, and her community reaped the rewards of generosity and kindness.

And Grandma Stieglitz is not the only person I know who has dwelt with wisdom and built a better community for it. I think of a retired banker I know who volunteers every Spring with United Way to help folks prepare their taxes. I think of a lawyer who provided pro bono defense for a 12 year old who had committed a pretty terrible crime, and then for 6 years drove from Jacksonville to Tampa every Saturday to visit that child in prison so that they knew they mattered to someone. I think of friends who open their home over and over again to children through respite foster care, ensuring that kids always have a safe place to land.

Think of the image of Lady Wisdom that Proverbs 31 gives us: she is clothed with strength and dignity, and she laughs at the days to come. I can picture her, this radiant woman, surrounded by neighbors and friends and families, crows feet around her eyes, jeans and a tshirt on, head thrown back in laughter, joy emanating from her body. Counter-intuitively, wisdom teaches us that we will find joy when we work for the peace, the stability, the justice, the love of our community instead of for ourselves. And this tracks for me, because of who Wisdom is. Scripture tells us that wisdom dwelt with God at the foundation of the world, and it was through Wisdom that God created order out of chaos. In the Gospel of John we learn that this wisdom was the Word, the logos, Christ, with God in the beginning, through who all things were made. And we know something of the wisdom of Christ because we have the testimony of the Gospels. The wisdom of God, the wisdom of Christ, as Paul tells us, is Christ crucified, our righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Dwelling with wisdom means embracing God’s ethic of love in the world, the ethic demonstrated by Jesus himself on the cross – an ethic of radical hospitality and openness and love, of perceiving the needs of others as ahead of yourself, of emptying yourself for the sake of another, of allowing yourself to be last and servant of all.

And Proverbs tells us that right there is where we will find the good life, in the emptying of ourselves, in the serving, in the seeking to live a life for others. How can that be, you might ask? It sounds good and lovely, but how does this life of sacrifice match the life of riches and blessing that Proverbs 31 seems to offer? Once more we look to Jesus, who models both the wisdom of God and the power of wisdom, which is resurrection. God’s ethic of love always – always, always, always – ends in resurrection. It may be the tiniest tastes of it, but God’s ethic of love always sows life. My great-grandmother’s life dwelt in wisdom continues to produce new life in our world, as it has been a guiding light for me in my own life and ministry. Any good fruit I will bear will be because of seeds sown 100 years ago by Emma Stieglitz. For my friends who foster, they see tiny tastes of resurrection in the children who tell them they know what home feels like, even if for a few days, when they are at their house. Friends, when we seek to be last and servant of all, we get the best seat in the house to the new things God is doing in the world.

Lady Wisdom is inviting us to her home. She is even now lighting her lamp to prepare a place for us, weaving the cloth and plucking the fruit from the vineyard. Will you sit at her table? Will you dwell in her household? Will you seek the wisdom of God?

In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and Mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and shall be forever. Amen.