#violence #judgement #redemption #lent 

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 2]]

We never read Scripture in a vacuum. We always bring our own stories, our community, our worries, the news with us to the page. And so as we read this story, of Jesus brandishing a whip in the temple, I am mindful that there was shooting in a Houston church just three weeks ago, that nine people were murdered in Mother Emmanuel AME Church in Charleston in 2015, that a white Christian nationalist opened fire in a Pittsburgh synagogue in 2018. A whip is not a gun, but I am nonetheless uncomfortable with the image of Jesus brandishing any sort of weapon in a house of worship when weapons in worship are an all-too-real fear for many.

I am disturbed by violent Jesus.

We live in an age of violence: between near daily news reports of mass shootings in the US and war abroad, it’s easy to overlook the almost pedestrian violence in our passage today. Jesus, like many good Jews of his day, makes his way to Jerusalem to celebrate Passover there. He goes to the temple, presumably to make the necessary sacrifices, prescribed in the law, to cleanse himself for the festival observance. The temple courtyard is crowded. Again, it’s a right before the Passover, and so Jesus is not the only one making this special trip to the temple. The ancient Jewish historian Josephus estimated that over 2.5 million people attended the Passover festival in 66 CE, about 30 some odd years after this scene. Alongside this mass of festival pilgrims are the folks selling them what they need: the animals required to make the necessary sacrifices, plus money changers who can help them convert their Roman coins into shekels to pay their temple tax.

In the midst of this hub-bub, Jesus becomes enraged. Right there in the temple courtyard he begins braiding a whip – who knows where he got the ropes from. I once was at a soccer game in West Africa that ended in a riot – it turns out spectators had carried rocks into the stadium in their pockets just in case the game didn’t go their way. Perhaps Jesus came similarly prepared to the temple, his pockets stuffed with ropes just in case, or perhaps he looked around and scrounged up everything he needed. Either way, Jesus hastily braids his ropes together into a weapon, and then brandishes it in a house of worship. Right there in the crowd, people milling about, selecting animals for sacrifice, changing money, talking with their friends and family, Jesus cracks his whip. I imagine that first whip crack like a thunderbolt in the crowd, heads snapping around to identify the source of the sound. Perhaps it even incited a panic, although the reaction of the crowd is not recorded in Scripture. Although it seems pretty clear in the text that Jesus’s whip was only intended to herd the livestock out of the temple and into the streets, to brandish it in such a crowded area would have been risky. And Jesus didn’t stop there. He also flipped tables, which is what this scene is more famously remembered for. He scatters the earnings of the livestock traders and the money changers across the temple floor, yelling at them to stop turning his Father’s house into a marketplace. Imagine if someone turned up at Riverside Arts Market with a whip cracking it down the aisles while they flipped over tables and yelled about the evils of capitalism. Even if not a single person was harmed, any of us there to witness it would be terrified.

I am disturbed by violent Jesus.

The question we have to ask, of course, is why? Why is Jesus rampaging through the temple? What has got him so worked up? I wish we could stick with the Sunday School version of this story I got as a kid. In that version, the money changers and livestock traders are greedy people trying to make a buck off of people’s pure intentions to worship. My daughter has a Mickey Mouse Christmas Carol book, and in it is a picture of Scrooge McDuck sitting behind his desk surveying his piles of gold, muttering, “Heh heh heh, money money money.” In the easy version of this story, the traders in the temple are Scrooge McDuck, crowing over the riches they earned off the Tiny Tim’s of the 1st century Jewish Temple.

But I doubt the traders saw themselves that way. From their perspective, they are providing a necessary service to the thousands, maybe millions, of pilgrims descending on Jerusalem for Passover. The ritual sacrifices prescribed by the law that the pilgrims were making required unblemished bulls, goats, lambs, and doves. Imagine for a second that you are a good first century Jew living in Egypt. As a devout Jew, you have decided to journey back to Jerusalem for the Passover. You know that you will need an unblemished bull once you get there. The law is very clear. But you have a long journey ahead of you. Even if you have an unblemished bull in your possession, by the time you have crossed the Mediterannean and traversed the roads from the coast to Jerusalem, who knows what kind of shape your bull will be in. Wouldn’t it just be easier to buy one once you get to the temple, rather than worrying about herding your bull all the way from Egpyt? This is the service the traders in the temple were providing. I’m willing to bet that if you asked most of the people in the crowd that day, they would have been grateful for the ease that the traders brought to the whole process of ritual sacrifice.

Which brings us back to the question of why Jesus is rampaging through the temple. No one else in the scene seems upset with the traders. We don’t read about anyone else joining in Jesus’s tirade. This doesn’t turn into a riot. It’s just Jesus. And although Jesus’s wrath is hitting home in the livelihoods of the traders in the temple, I don’t think their occupation is specifically or solely what Jesus is raging against. Rather, it is a system in which we try our best to do what is right, and somehow we still end up doing the wrong thing. The livestock traders and money changers are trying to facilitate people’s worship, and yet Jesus can see that those good intentions have turned, and in some cases the cost of the markup on goods becomes a barrier to people’s abilities to participate in the temple worship. Perhaps that is simply the cost of doing business, but that is not a cost that Jesus is willing to accept. God’s house of worship has indeed become a marketplace, and that is an affront to Jesus.

We are left with this mismatch between people’s intentions, helping facilitate worship, and the reality, which is that sometimes they become a barrier to worship. That gap is where I think Jesus’s rage is directed. It is a system in which we are set up to fail. We live in a world where sin is pervasive, and so even our best intentions sometimes curdle and rot. This is the whole premise of the TV show the Good Place, and my apologies if you haven’t seen it and were hoping to get to it sometime. Maybe you just want to sneak out the back for a couple minutes, because I’m about to ruin several seasons worth of plot for you.

The premise of the show is that every person, when they die, either goes to the Good Place or the Bad Place. In the Good Place, you are matched with your soulmate and spend eternity in a place of perfect happiness where everything you wish for is given to you. In the Bad Place, you are tortured by demons for eternity. Where you end up for eternity depends on your life’s score. Everyone’s life is assigned a mathematical value based on all their actions in their lifetime. So, you take a meal to your neighbor just home from surgery, your score goes up. You cut someone off in traffic, your score goes down. You get the idea. And those with top scores go to the Good Place.

There is only one problem with this system, as a handful of characters discover. Our world is so complex that no one ever truly understands the full implications of their actions, and as a result no one has made it into the Good Place for centuries. Seemingly innocuous actions end up having negative repercussions. You buy produce from Publix, but you don’t know that particular produce was farmed by a company with an abominable record of negligence against its migrant farmworkers and a poor environmental record. You donate clothing to a charity overseas, but the clothing from that charity ends up undercutting the local clothing market and putting people out of jobs. Though the Good Place wouldn’t term it as such, it grapples with the fundamental reality that the world has been pervaded by sin, and even when we seek to do good, sin can twist things. The Confession of 1967 puts it this way: “All human virtue, when seen in the light of God’s love in Jesus Christ, is found to be infected by self-interest and hostility. Thus all [people] fall under God’s judgement. No one is more subject to that judgment than the [one] who assumes they are guiltless before God or morally superior to others” (9.13).

This is the same thing the Psalmist uncovers in today’s Psalm. He spends time meditating on God’s perfect law, and how good and rewarding it is to keep God’s commandments. And then it’s like he has this wake up moment. Hold on. Wait just a minute. I still keep messing it up. So he implores God: “Who can detect their errors? Clear me from hidden faults.” We don’t know what we don’t know, and so we need God to shine the light on all the places we screw up and don’t even realize it.

Which brings us back to Jesus flipping tables and brandishing a whip in the temple. Jesus is affronted by sin in the world, by a sin that is so infectious that we can’t even tease out our good actions from our bad actions. This invasive, infectious sin enrages Jesus. And honestly, though I am still disturbed by violent Jesus, I also deep down want a Jesus who rages against the pervasiveness of sin in the world.

One summer in college I worked in a home for former street kids in West Africa. We would take our kids to play soccer most afternoons, and there we met a little crew of street kids who were sent out to beg everyday. We would see them most days and we started bringing them snacks, nothing big, crackers, cookies, things like that. After a couple of weeks, the cook at our house said we had to stop bringing them food. If the man who served as their teacher and protector caught wind that they were getting food but not bringing it back to him, he would beat them. We had tried to help these boys with a small gesture, and we had jeopardized their safety instead. I remember crying tears of frustration and rage that night. The wise woman who led our team, Rosemary, told me to let those tears fall as a sign of righteous anger, knowing that Jesus raged with me.

So I am disturbed by the idea of  violent Jesus, but I also want to rage with Jesus against sin’s pervasiveness and my complicity in it. Friends, honesty requires us to acknowledge that we are indeed complicit in systems of sin, whether we want to be or not. We have all acted in ways that have denied the dignity of others, that have harmed God’s good creation, that have kept people from worship, that have sinned against God in thought, word, and deed, through our action and our inaction. Like the Psalmist, we have undetected errors and hidden faults. And sometimes, Jesus has to flip things upside down in our world to get our attention. Sometimes we watch our offering get spilled to the floor. Sometimes we must repent in tears of frustration and rage.

But friends, as always with Jesus, this is not how the story ends. Jesus does not just flip table, drop the mic, and walk out. No. The people in the temple want to know what in the world just happened – why does he think he gets to waltz into the temple and do this? Jesus’s answer must have been beyond puzzling to his contemporary audience: he tells them that if the temple is destroyed, he can rebuild it again in three days. And then John gives us this little aside, just to make sure we understand what Jesus was saying, “But he was speaking of the temple of his body.”

Jesus here points to a fundamental truth: God’s wrath is always in service to God’s love. When Jesus pours out his fury against the sins of the traders and moneychangers, and more broadly the system of sin they are locked in, he then points to the antidote, the cataclysmic moment that is coming, his own death and resurrection. The violence of Jesus here is countered by the radical nonviolence of Jesus on the cross, where Jesus himself, in his very body, meets and takes on the systemic sin that we all find inescapable and our own sins that our bound up in it. And then he points us past that to the resurrection, reminding us that sin will not win the day. It is love that pushes Jesus to flip tables in the temple, it is love that compels Jesus to the cross and holds him there, and it is love that rises victoriously from the grave, breaking the bonds of sin and death forever. Our own sin and the nature of sin in the world may require that sometimes tables be flipped over, but in Christ’s love those tables will always be restored to something better.

I am reminded of Paul’s words in his letter to the Romans, a letter in which Paul grapples deeply with human sinfulness and God’s great love:

“What then are we to say about these things? If God is for us, who is against us? He who did not withhold his own Son, but gave him up for all of us, will he not also give us everything else? Who will bring charges against God’s elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? It is Christ Jesus, who died, yes, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed intercedes for us. Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Will hardship, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus.”

Over these weeks of Lent, perhaps you have been examining yourself and found hidden sin you never realized was in you. Perhaps you look at the state of the world everyday and lament the powers and principalities that seem to rule this age with death, oppression, and violence. Perhaps you have felt overwhelmed by the world’s need and powerless to change it. Perhaps you have felt some tables in your life start to flip, and the ensuing chaos is terrifying. Friends, beloved of Christ, Jesus Christ’s love is for you. Jesus Christ’s resurrection is for you. Jesus Christ is even now seated at the right hand of God, redeeming and restoring and making all things new…for you.

In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and mother of us all, who was in the beginning, is now, and will be forever. Amen.