#darkness #control #trial 

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Mark/Mark 4]]


In “The Voyage of the Dawn Treader” by C.S. Lewis, Lucy Pevensie, Edmund Pevensie, and their cousin Eustace are on a ship that is surrounded by an **overwhelming** **darkness**. There appears to be no escape from the **trial**. Lucy whispers a prayer, “Aslan, if you ever loved us at all, send help now.” A light appears in the darkness. The light transforms into a bird that speaks for Aslan, “Courage, dear heart.” The bird guides the ship to safety.

In the aforementioned passage, Lucy knows God’s love and light is out there, somewhere in the **darkness**. She is afraid because the ship has been in **darkness** for a long time. Lucy makes a positive choice and prays for light and guidance. By asking for help, she acknowledges God is in **control** of light and darkness.

I believe the Holy Spirit lives inside people. Further, God uses people, events, and even nature to speak to us. I am fortunate to be surrounded by multiple sources of God’s guidance and love. A few months ago, I was struggling with writing this sermon. I really wanted my first sermon to be good and helpful to other people. I asked a long-time friend, who is an experienced pastor, for help. When someone has known you for over thirty years, he or she is comfortable being direct. My friend told me I struggled with this sermon because I was afraid of where it would go. I blinked a few times and recalled a question a wise person asked during my April meeting with Session, “What are you afraid of?” I am afraid of floods and storms.

Storms remind me of the 1985 West Virginia Flood. I was ten. Witnessing and experiencing such devastation was difficult and traumatic. I knew God’s light and love were out there in the darkness. Fear of the uncontrollable waters and being without a home blocked my vision. Only later did I see a demonstration of God’s light.

I feel I can identify with Jesus’ disciples in Mark. The disciples followed Jesus’ instructions, boarded a boat, and began to cross the Sea of Galilee. The men were traveling to a Gentile land. Jesus’ apostles had no idea what awaited them. The disciples had been following Jesus for some time. Undoubtedly, the men had faith God would help them witness to strangers. The disciples, some of whom were experienced fishers, became **overwhelmed** when a **storm** threatened to destroy their boat and drown everyone on board. I’m guessing they bailed water, tied parts of the ship with rope, and grabbed random objects that would float. Maybe desperation drove the disciples to run all over the ship trying to **control** the situation by fixing things. I’ve made that mistake in the past. Eventually, the men realized while mere humans were repairing three parts of the ship, the storm was breaking six more sections to pieces. Attempting to take full **control** in the face of death could result in deeper darkness. The disciples turned to a physical manifestation of **The** **Master** **Controller**, Jesus. Jesus had abundant faith in His Father’s **control**.

David also recognized striving for total **control** could lead to darkness and even death. David discovered he was unable to walk because he was not accustomed to wearing armor designed for a full-grown man. David knew he must share the reins of **control** with God by removing the armor and entering the fight with minimal weapons. With God’s help, David used a single stone to kill Goliath. We can surmise David chose to share the reins with God during other **trials** in his life.

David and Jesus’ disciples had faith in God. All the men faced darkness and the likelihood of death. But there are key differences in their stories. David was very vocal about his faith in God’s protection. While David didn’t have Jesus physically there with him, he acknowledged being surrounded by God’s warm blanket. As a shepherd, he had been protected from dangers that lurked in nature. The people who surrounded David were a problem. Military leaders judged David’s abilities by his age and size. Adults decided since David was determined to fight like a man, he should dress like a man. At first, David yielded to the men’s advice. However, he discovered conformity would hinder his ability to do God’s work. David conquered Goliath because he found the armor of God more secure than the armor of men.

Pressure to conform can easily be found in society. When exploring institutions of higher learning or other locations where your life can be altered, it’s tempting to make calls or surf the internet. Why spend money on gas and food to gain knowledge that can be obtained while sitting in a comfortable desk chair? The truth is some lessons can only be learned from experience and through the support of other people. By encouraging and praying for an eager explorer, you are placing that person in the **control** of God. The warm blanket of love wraps around the person’s shoulders. That individual feels more secure about facing whatever the world throws at him or her, sometimes literally. For example, I asked this congregation to pray for my health and safety as I traveled in April. I was busy during the two-week trip. I spent time with family, visited a friend, experienced two seminaries, witnessed ministry in two churches, and had an experience on a university campus. Not only was I protected from a large, airborne hunk of metal that collided with the front of my car, but God also sent me compassionate and helpful people when one of my tires exploded. I was blessed with more than protection. During the road trip, God gave me the tools necessary to help someone. I was also led to hand the reins of **control** over to a close friend and a very enthusiastic deacon. In return, I received an informative behind-the-scenes look at rural ministry and a thoroughly insightful seminary experience. I don’t regret my decision to drive and allow **control** to be placed in God’s hands. Although, I did choose to take a little **control** by sending Adam a couple of texts along the lines of, “I’m okay, but please keep the prayers coming!” By the way, thank you all for those prayers.

In Mark, the disciples were faced with a much more challenging situation than a road trip. Instead of feeling the spirit of God in the passenger seat, they had an exhausted Jesus sleeping in a doomed boat. Yes, Jesus was there. But so were bolts of lightning that threatened fire and waves that had enough force to act as demolition experts. Can we blame the disciples for finding it difficult to dip into the well of faith when darkness and death were so close to swallowing them whole? Some of the men were probably thinking, “Father, we followed your son’s instructions to spread a message to strangers and you send us this?” In the end, the disciple’s mortal limitations forced them to desperately seek the Lord’s light in a seemingly endless darkness. Jesus showed compassion and reminded his followers who was in **control** of all things, including nature.

Our contemporary world is frequently struck by disaster. Floods, hurricanes, and other violent events remind us of God’s **control** and our own mortality. Children and adults face such realities. Just as Lucy Pevensie and the disciples needed to hear the voice of God, many people today yearn to be wrapped in a blanket of love and light. I encourage you to think about ways to reach out to people who need the security of God. Actions can range from the simplicity of prayer to rescue from churning waters. Your actions, big or small, will be important.

I will never forget the first responder and neighbor who appeared in one of the few motorboats to be found a town full of churning water. Flood waters ripped houses off their foundations. Yet, God moved the two men to rescue my family and countless other victims.

There is something else I will never forget. In 1985, God also used water to deliver hope. Several stories of miracles circulated in my home state after the flood. One of those miracles took place inside our flood ravaged home. When authorities finally permitted my parents to enter the house, Mom and Dad found our coffee table. The battered table was splashed with mud but had floated on the water. Our Bible and white, crochet doily on which the Book rested were pristine.

