Matthew 1:1-16
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Matthew/Matt 1]]

(Tripp as “mayor of Avondale” -  being a part of the “right people” opening doors)

And that’s just on a small scale here in Jacksonville. Imagine if you were a Flagler or a Vanderbilt – even though we are long past the days of the robber barons, those names still carry weight, still open doors. They convey a pedigree that is meaningful.

Matthew, in our passage today, understands the power of coming from the right people. Matthew is a good 1st century Jew who knows his Scripture well, writing for other good 1st century Jews who know their Scripture well. He knows what the people expect in a Messiah, what we heard in Isaiah 11: the Spirit of the Lord will rest on a shoot from the stump of Jesse, a branch from its roots. In other words, look to the line of David, the son of Jesse. For Matthew and his contemporaries, the prophecies of the Old Testament have set up a sort of Messianic purity test: is he from the right people? Is he a good Jew like us, with his good Jewish bonafides?

Matthew, then, opens with a genealogy of Jesus, and he starts it off with a bang: Jesus the Messiah, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Check and check. He has right away conveyed to his audience: Jesus is one of us, and he’s descended from the best of us. And then he elaborates, drawing the connection from Abraham to David and then from David through the exile and the end of the kings to Jesus. We see a lot of names we would expect: Isaac, Jacob, and Judah, Boaz, Jesse, Solomon, the line of kings down to Jeconiah who was exiled, folks who returned post-exile like Zerubbabel. If you want a who’s who of Jewish history in your genealogy, Matthew’s put a pretty good list together. This Jesus fellow? Yep, he’s got the right credentials. He’s definitely from the right people.

But look again at that list, and there are a handful of surprises. Four surprises to be exact. Four women who sneak their way into this list: Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and “the wife of Uriah,” who we know better as Bathsheba. In a family tree that is most concerned with establishing Jesus as a son of Abraham and a son of David, as the Messiah who comes from the right line, in a culture where the the Father’s name and the Father’s family confers status, why did Matthew single out these women, these mothers, as worth a mention by name? Let’s me give you a little refresher on their stories.

(Tamar)

(Rahab)

(Ruth)

(Bathsheba)

So what do Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba have in common? We have widows and foreigners, prostitutes, enemies, women engaging in deception and trickery and promiscuity, women risking everything for the survival of themselves and their families. These are not Hebrews among Hebrews, Jews among Jews. Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, and Bathsheba are striking because they are exactly who you would not want to call out if you were trying to sell yourself or your Messiah as the inheritor of all the best Israel has ever been. These are the parts of the family history that you might gloss over. And yet, here they are, because God never works exclusively through the people we expect.

Matthew’s Gospel here points to a critical truth about God at work in the world: the incarnation is dependent on people who are not like us. In the Incarnation, God took on flesh and moved into the neighborhood, to borrow a phrase from Eugene Peterson. And because God took on flesh and moved into the neighborhood, our neighborhood, we may be tricked into thinking that God with us is the exclusive domain of people like us. But friends, just because God moved into the neighborhood doesn’t mean God fits into the neighborhood, or is even the kind of neighbor we might want.

Over the past couple weeks, you’ve been exploring working across difference, why that is good and meaningful and how to make that happen. For me, the crux lies here: we seek to work with people who are unlike us because God is among them. “God with us” often shows up in the people who are least like us.

As people of privilege, this is really important for us. We are more like the Abraham’s and the David’s than the Tamar’s and Bathsheba’s. We are mostly middle- to upper-middle class white folks living in a society structured for people just like us. We do not have to work hard to interact by and large with folks who are like us – who look like us and send their kids to the same schools we do, who vote like we do and believe the same things about God as we do. And we think to ourselves, “Aha, we’ve got this figured out. Surely God will show up here, among us.” And yes, we will get a glimpse of God, but it will be a sliver, and it will be an image of God that coincidentally seems to look an awful lot like us. But if we want to be surprised and challenged by the goodness of God, the justice of God, the beauty of God, the intimate love of God, we need to do the work of reaching across our differences and looking for the Messiah amongst people we would not expect and where we do not really want God to be.

When I was single, I hosted couch surfers in my home. These were folks who were traveling through Jacksonville and instead of staying in hotels, they looked to stay with a local host. I met fun and fascinating people from all over the world, and as a bonus was gifted a lot of excellent chocolate from around the world as thanks. One of my favorite guests was Jack, who stayed with me a couple of times over the years and with who I have remained friends, mostly via social media. Jack is one of the most outgoing people you will meet in your life, friendly as all get out. He is a deeply committed Christian, in a much more conservative tradition that does not recognize the ordination of women. I want to say I’m committed to the diversity of the church, that we are more beautiful when we reflect the fullness of the body of Christ, that Jesus sets a wide table that includes all sorts of people who believe differently than me, and I struggle when I am face to face with people who are openly opposed to me fully using my gifts to participate in God’s work in the world. Despite, Jack and I became friends. His faith spurs him to a profound commitment to justice and hospitality that inspires me, and his faith carried him through a dark, dark time in his life when his little girl was diagnosed with a brain tumor. I have thought often of his faith in those days when I have faced hard times. I can honestly tell you I have encountered God through Jack, and my faith is richer for knowing him, and I think he would say the same for me. And we still disagree profoundly on the issue of women’s ordination.

Friends, God is always, always, always showing up in what I think are the wrong places – in the people who are not like me, who don’t think the things I do, who don’t believe what I believe, who don’t pursue justice and love and mercy in the ways that I would, who don’t look like me or talk like me or go to the same schools and coffee shops and churches as me. And so we do the hard work of seeking those who are unlike us, of building bridges, of acknowledging our differences and then working through and past them because that is where we will find Jesus.

In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and Mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and will be forever. Amen.

