

#tension #lent #victory #hope #wilderness

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12]]

Now among those who went up to worship at the festival **were some Greeks**.  They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and said to him, "Sir, we wish to see Jesus."  Philip went and told Andrew, then Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus.  Jesus answered them, "The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.  Very truly, I tell you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains just a single grain, but if it dies it bears much fruit.  Those who love their life lose it, and those who hate their life in this world will keep it for eternal life.  Whoever serves me must follow me, and where I am, there will my servant be also. Whoever serves me, the Father will honor.  

"Now my soul is troubled. And what should I say: 'Father, save me from this hour'? No, it is for this reason that I have come to this hour.  Father, glorify your name." Then a voice came from heaven, "I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again."  *The crowd standing there heard it and said that it was thunder. Others said, "An angel has spoken to him."  Jesus answered, "This voice has come for your sake, not for mine.*  Now is the judgment of this world; now the ruler of this world will be driven out.  And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."  He said this to indicate the kind of death he was to die.  [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#21]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#22]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#23]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#24]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#25]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#26]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#27]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#28]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#29]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#30]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#31]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#32]][[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 12#33]]

TSWBAT: We're back in wilderness to hear God's voice.  Holding the tension that it's hard, that death is there, but within the hope of resurrection.

- We're coming to the point of our Lenten season where we start to make the turn, and head towards holy week.
- And during this season, we've worked to think about the stripping away of things to get to the urgency of this time - that the Kingdom is at hand.  In the first sermon of the season, I said:
	- Our journey together through Lent ... conveys the immediacy and importance of what is happening here with Jesus.  We can almost feel breathless with all of the "and then, and then, and then..." but in a world that is hurting where so many need to know that justice is coming, how could we be anything else but breathless?
	- Our hearts crave a change - to have faith in good tidings... not in a world damned to destruction.
	- And yes, this Spirit will cause us to go into wilderness: the places where others are wandering, seeking, needing to hear the same.  The wilderness is the thin space of folks wearing camel skins and eating locusts - certainly not the staid walls of churches throughout the world.  But when we go, when we meet the Accuser and speak the same words we heard booming as we approached the baptismal waters, we speak the same hope.  And just as the accuser vanishes then, so will the angels attend to us.
- And here, today, we return back to this feeling of the wilderness.  
- John invites us into an interesting moment here.
	- We witness that the gospel is expanding - Greeks (which we should hear more as "not Hebrew people") are gathering to meet Jesus.
	- Jesus telegraphs for us pretty directly that this attention and growth of the gospel for all is going to come at cost - his life.
	- And that, on its own, likely sends us into a bit of spiritual despair.
		- Because, in the end, Christ's ministry was one of the reconciliation and hope - remember that this is the Kingdom of God coming near!  This should be the thing that makes us all excited!  Who doesn't want people healed, lives renewed, sight to the blind.  After all, we spend billions and billions of dollar in medicine to hope for the same.  We pour out or resources to be healed.  And here, Jesus is offering it for free, and he will be rejected for it.
	- We might get then why Jesus' soul is troubled, because mine is too.
		- Because I don't want people to not want healing.  I don't want people throw in the towel on hope.  I don't want people at the moment when they could take what Jesus offers that they'd rather reject it and remain the spoilsport, remain in the shadows.
		- And furthermore, I don't like the implication of what it means as a community.  To teach as Christ teaches, to live as Christ lives, to hope as Christ hopes means that at some point, we might be apt to want to say "Father, save us from this hour."  And when given the option, we might even further just avoid the walk altogether.  Our Lenten season becomes a reasonable exercise of self-restraint, maybe we've lost a few pounds, and we enjoyed a fish fry or two on the side.  Not the worst way to spend early spring.
		- We just don't want the wilderness to have been for naught.  Because if it is, then all this is, is death.  And my spirit, and likely yours, cannot bear simply death.
- But yet.  As soon as Jesus poses the question, he responds resolutely - no.  And I wonder if it's because here, in John's gospel, we see the fully human, fully God savior aware of what's to come.
	- This Jesus knows.  This Jesus knows of resurrection before even death has taken hold.  This Jesus knows of ascension - of meeting God again.  This Jesus knows that no matter what happens on this road, there will always be redemption, and always be victory.
	- And I'm not sure, in the depths of my heart, I could really take the wilderness seriously without knowing, as we heard in the beginning of Lent, that the angels will attend to Jesus again.  I couldn't take this walk seriously in all its absurdity if I didn't believe God wasn't already planning resurrection.  That while I can't always see beyond linear time, God does.  God has always planned victory, death has never had its sting.
	- And so, in the Lenten season that is meant to strip away all the things that hide the simple truth, and leave us vulnerable, we'd do well to place in our now-fragile hearts this truth - that resurrection will come.  Resurrection will always come.  Death is never the final answer, but is always transformed into more.  The wilderness will continue to bear fruit as the seeds fall and grow.  There is always more.  That is the fuel that keeps us moving; the only way we too can say resolutely no when we waiver - that we know the outcome has always and will always be the same - Friday is not the focus.  It is Sunday.