tags: #trinity #relationship #certainty #logic #fundamentalism #growth 

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 15]]
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 16]]


- As many of you may know, I grew up in my grandfather's church. A fundamentalist Church of Christ church, I was able to grow up with a particular kind of certainty about Scripture. It says how it goes: a seven-day Creation is a literal series of 24-hour moments.
- Indeed, there is a certain appeal to that kind of certainty.  It allows a person to have stability and security.  For everything that can shift in the sands of time and experience, to rest in the idea of Scripture being concretely infallible and immovable seems like a way to set a foundation of faith.
- And yes, it works.  Until it doesn't.  That could describe how I moved from the Church of Christ to the PCUSA.  Eventually, my curiosity and underlying stubbornness to have a cohesive worldview started asking questions about my upbringing, like a massive game of theological Jenga: do I need to believe in a seven-day Creation?  Does it undergird, for instance, my belief in the resurrection?  Over time, I found more and more pieces of my Jenga tower could be removed and still stay firmly upright, strangely perhaps more potent, when I was willing to let a few pieces come loose.  
- Because here, with the benefit of about twenty years of hindsight, was the ultimate realization I've had about that period, and why I could never go back to fundamentalism: that the quest for stability and certainty is, at its core, a quest for control.  If I can dictate the how of things, determine how God works, and line God's actions in the world to my own understanding, then I've granted myself the power to accept and reject it. 
- But what I lose in that fight for control, I've learned, is a relationship to wonder.  A relationship into mystery.  A relationship to the things that can't easily be placed into objective categories.  If everything is literal, it's stable, but it's vacuous.  It leads to a tower that's forced to have all its pieces together without one being allowed to move.  Take one loose, and everything teeters and collapses - which defines what I've noticed so many of my peers and colleagues have done when they say they "deconstruct."  In their quest to let go of such literalism, they want to maintain a sense of control, unable to let loose a couple of Jenga blocks here and there.
- Think about it another way:
	- When we had recently, for instance, the wonder of the northern lights fall this far south, had we not known better, we might have considered it something downright supernatural - unexplainable.  But, of course, we understand why it happened - we could define it.  It was increased solar activity interacting with our atmosphere.  Still beautiful, but not existential.  I didn't need to worry about the world collapsing; some of my electronics might have acted strange.
	- And for a moment, I can rest on the idea that I have control.  But, if we lean too far into just definitions, it might lose its true beauty.  It was a special thing to see.  Or, perhaps lean too far into rejecting any scientific explanation, you might be apt to assume it's the next in the too-many-to-count times the world was supposed to end that this was finally God bringing the rapture.
	- Instead, what if it's really about the relationship?  The wonder, beauty, and celebration of sharing in something.  For a moment, even with all of the scientific explanation, we could appreciate something for what it is?
- This is why Trinity Sunday is still a day on our liturgical calendar. For how many centuries have people tried to define how the Trinity works?  And woe to the preacher who thinks their fundamental task is to explain the day.  I've fallen into that trap more times than I'd like to admit.  But the whole point of this day is to ask the question: What about the relationship?
	- That's why I particularly enjoy revisiting the conversation between Jesus and Nicodemus this year.
	- Credit to Nicodemus—he's willing to have the conversation with Jesus. He gets that there's something special here, something wonderful.
	- Jesus's response is to define it for him. No one can see the Kingdom without being born again, which, in a literal way, makes no sense. There's no comfort there. Even as Jesus keeps defining rebirth as with water and spirit, it still doesn't make sense to Nicodemus: "How can these things be?"
	- But where does it end in our story here?  How do we resolve this?  In relationship.  In love: God loves the world and gives Jesus, not for judgment but for salvation.  And should Nicodemus have spent more time figuring out rebirth, water, and Spirit, he'd have missed the real story.
	- Now, that's not to say that rebirth through water and Spirit isn't important, but just like the Northern Lights in Florida, sometimes it's worth it to get outside and live it—to have a relationship with the wonder of something pretty magical.
- Now, this need not be just some esoteric discussion - there is something practical to it: the journey into wonder is the journey of the mystic.  Julian of Norwich, a late 14th and early 15th-century mystic, wrote in her book *Revelations of Divine Love*, this:
	- And our good Lord answered to all the questions and doubts which I could raise, saying most comfortingly: I may make all things well, and I can make all things well, and I shall make all things well, and I will make all things well; and you will see yourself that every kind of thing will be well. When he says, ‘I may’, I understand this to apply to the Father; and when he says ‘I can’, I understand it for the Son; and when he says, ‘I will’, I understand it for the Holy spirit; and when he says, ‘I shall”, I understand it for the unity of the blessed Trinity, three persons and one truth; and when he says, ‘You will see yourself’, I understand it for the union of all men who will be saved in the blessed Trinity. And in these five words, God wishes us to be enclosed in rest and peace.”
	- Kirk Alan Kubicek, an Episcopal priest in Maryland, reminds us that with these five words, we learn that God’s wish for us is to be “enclosed” in rest and peace! God wants to surround us with Divine Love, and each _persona_ of the Holy Trinity is forever and constantly involved in this enclosing or surrounding us with Love, which in most of the Bible is described by the Hebrew word, _hesed. 
	- _Hesed_ is perhaps best understood as an “act of good faith” rather than a feeling. It is a quality that humans are to share with God: that generous ability to put the interests of another weaker party before one’s own, most especially the needs of the poor, widows, orphans, and strangers from other countries who are sojourning in the land. As Julian reveals, God's Divine Love acts with love on behalf of others just as God acts with love on our behalf.
- Ah!  There it is!  Beyond definitions, beyond fundamentalist certainty, beyond any creaky tower of truth built and unbuilt by human hands lies care.  Lies love.  Lies relationship.  Things that, when allowed to be defined and rationalized, don't make rational sense - what's logical about putting a weaker party's interest ahead of one's own?  But, what it becomes is the relationship, *hesed*.
- Y'all, here's the truth: this Sunday will likely never be one that blows your mind with its theological depth or some wild, amazing narrative.  But what it can be is a quiet, patient reminder of what tugs at our Spirits more than we often realize: that there's still something mysterious and magical about a God we've tried so hard to define out of relevance.  God's mystery, the Kingdom's power, is brought to life in the people who journey within it.  That, by its nature, is not something that happens in one sermon or one service, but is the always and ever reminder of a long journey to remember to be on the lookout for wonder, for being enveloped in God's love.  To keep hearing I may, I can, I will, I shall, you will see.