#epiphany [[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Mark/Mark 1]]

Think back to how you met Jesus. How did you first encounter him? How did you come to faith? Perhaps your story is like mine. I grew up going to church, and I cannot remember a day in my life that I haven’t known God. My understanding has changed, shifted, and deepened, but I know Jesus in the same way I know my parents or my older brother: he has always been there, an ever present fixture in my life. #relationship 

Perhaps, though, your story is much more dramatic. A woman named Beth recently shared her testimony in the magazine Christianity Today[[1]](#_ftn1), recounting how God rescued her from a life of addiction. After experiencing two traumatic deaths early in her life, Beth began using drugs and alcohol by the time she was 10 years old. By age 21, she had overdosed several times and attempted to take her own life several more, and she was without hope. In a rehab facility, she encountered Christ in the words of Scripture, taking to heart the angel’s words to Mary in Luke 1:37: For nothing will be impossible with God. She clawed her way back to health and safety and now, decades later, she tells the story of how Jesus delivered her.

So how did you meet Jesus? I’m sure if we polled everyone in the sanctuary today and those of you online, we would hear as many different stories as there are people, ranging from the fairly mundane to the very dramatic. It turns out Jesus shows up in all sorts of different ways, so that our stories of encountering the Living God are as unique as our fingerprints.

Throughout this season of Epiphany, we have been exploring stories of individuals coming face to face with the Messiah. Today, in our story from Mark’s gospel, we start to see those encounters multiply as Jesus stays up all night #healing people.

Our story picks up today right where last week’s Gospel reading left off. In fact, these two stories together make up kind of a “day in the life” of Jesus. Last week’s story served as the kick off of Jesus’s public ministry. He walks into the synagogue in Capernaum on the Sabbath and starts teaching. A demon-possessed man confronts him, and Jesus summarily dismisses the demon. Everyone who witnesses it is amazed at both what Jesus was teaching and the authority with which he sent the demon packing, and word starts to spread throughout Galilee about this Jesus fellow. Were you there on Saturday? Did you hear what he said? Did you see what he did? Hey, my cousin in Capernaum told me this wild tale. Maybe we should go check this guy out.

While the rumor mill of Galilee is swiftly churning, Jesus and his companions have left the synagogue and headed to Simon and Andrew’s house. Mark tells us that they entered Simon’s home “as soon as they left the synagogue.” Now, the way Mark tells stories is that everything happens “right now,” Mark’s always in a hurry, but in this instance it also just so happens that Simon only lives a few doors down from the synagogue. In the archaeological site of ancient Capernaum, archaeologists are pretty certain they have found both the ancient synagogue that Jesus would have taught in and the site of Simon Peter’s home, around which a church was later built. Unlike many biblical sites, they have a pretty high degree of confidence that these are the real deal. So, if you ever find yourself in the neighborhood of Capernaum, you can also visit the synagogue and then walk down the street and right away enter Simon’s home.

In Simon’s home, Jesus performs the first healing recorded in Mark’s Gospel. When Jesus and his friends get to Simon’s house, his friends tell him that Simon’s mother-in-law is sick in bed with a fever. Simon’s mother-in-law doesn’t get a name in Scripture, so I’m going to call her JoAnn. We don’t know what kind of illness JoAnn has, but we get the sense that it is pretty serious. Jesus goes to her room and simply takes her by the hand and helps her out of bed. JoAnn’s first encounter with Jesus was his caring, healing touch. I imagine her careworn hand, dry and cracked at the knuckles from decades of cooking and scrubbing and preparing the fish her son-in-law has brought home, in the warm, firm grasp of Jesus’s calloused carpenter’s hand. Her hands, which themselves had probably cooled so many fevered brows, spooned broth into feeble mouths, scrubbed and changed soiled linens, her own healing hands become her first encounter with the Christ, the place where she experiences her own healing. As she lays in her fever dream, she feels his hand grasp hers, and the next thing she knows she is on her feet, awake and energized, face to face with the Messiah. Did she know who he was? She must have known something special had happened, because her first reaction was to serve him.

Maybe your knee jerk reaction, like mine, is a little touch of annoyance that JoAnn is just off her sickbed, and here she is making a meal for Jesus and his friends, or cleaning up after them, we don’t really know what her “service” entails. But come on, y’all, the poor woman just started feeling better. Shouldn’t everyone else be taking care of her, not the other way around? But I don’t think her service is out of obligation. I don’t think she’s making a meal because she feels compelled by her gender, or her place in the household, or her prescribed domestic role. I imagine this is a service born out of gratitude. When I was in middle school, lightning struck my house and started a small fire in our attic. The fire department came and quickly put the fire out, and there was negligible damage to our home. A couple days later, my mom made a batch of homemade cookies and took them over to the fire station. She wanted to say thank you in a meaningful and tangible way, and homemade cookies seemed like a good way to express our gratitude. I think JoAnn’s service is much the same. She has met Jesus, she has been healed, she knows this encounter was special, and she wants to thank him, so she makes him a meal.

While Jesus is healing JoAnn, word is still spreading throughout the town and the region about him. Probably JoAnn’s healing is also getting added to the rumor mill. “Hey, I was just next door taking care of JoAnn while her sons were at synagogue, and you won’t believe what happened when they got home.” From house to house, stoop to stoop, well to well, word is traveling down the narrow streets of Capernaum. By nightfall, when the Sabbath is over, everyone has heard about this Jesus fellow, and they want a glimpse.

Pretty soon, the streets are packed. The streets of Capernaum were narrow, so it wouldn’t have taken much of a crowd to clog everything up. Mark tells us that the whole city gathered around the door, particularly those who were sick or possessed by demons. Folks had heard this Jesus fellow was at Simon’s house casting out demons and healing people, and they wanted to experience it for themselves. What a scene it must have been: dark streets overflowing with the sick, the suffering, and the destitute. Shadows cast by candles and lanterns dance on the walls as moans and murmurs fills the air. Sick people clambering to get a little closer to the healer all mixed up with laughing people dancing their way back home with a new lease on life.

And what was happening inside Simon’s home? What was Jesus doing? Typical Mark gives us no details, simply telling us that “he cured many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons.” For Mark, this is a demonstration of Jesus’s messianic power in the face the ills of the age that kept people in many forms of bondage. But behind Mark’s sweeping summary are real people, men and women and children who encountered Jesus one dark night in Capernaum and had their lives utterly transformed. Perhaps a desperate mother brought her baby wracked by seizures, her baby’s trembling body matched by her own trembling fear as she handed him over to this stranger. Maybe a man crawled his way through the streets, his leg injured beyond use in an olive press accident, left with no way to feed his family. He uses all his strength in this hail mary to get to Simon’s door, not knowing what he will find there. A grandmother unable to sleep because of the arthritic pain in her joints, a young man plagued by despair, a small steady voice telling him life is not worth living. The suffering of Capernaum laid bare at Simon’s door,a city of 1,500 people with 1,500 unique stories that needed a measure of hope and healing. And we don’t know what Jesus did, but I imagine his response to each person was as unique as their own story, a healing touch, a word of hope, a stern rebuke of whatever plagued them. After all, no two stories of healing in the Gospels are the same. People came searching for help, searching for relief, searching for healing, searching for hope, searching for something or someone to stem the tide of suffering and misfortune in their life, and they met Jesus, and Jesus met them, looked them in the eye, knew their name, saw their need, and healed it.

From our perspective, these stories certainly land on the “very dramatic” side of the how did you meet Jesus scale. For most of us Presbyterians, and really most people in the Western world after the Enlightenment, stories of miraculous healings leave us feeling a little squidgy. We would like a more solid, scientific explanation. We don’t expect Jesus to show up in miraculous healings today because we are a little uncomfortable with the idea of miracles altogether. That’s just not how we expect healing to happen. Unfortunately, because that is so often what we see in the Gospels, I think that puts us in danger of not really expecting Jesus to show up meaningfully in the world at all. The real problem, though, isn’t that Jesus doesn’t or can’t perform miracles. I think the real problem is that we are trying to put our own 21st century American understanding of how the world works onto Mark and his audience. In Jesus’ day, disease and illnesses were understood differently, they didn’t have germ theory, they didn’t talk about mental health. So people expected healings to occur differently, sometimes miraculously, sometimes with the excorcism of demons. Jesus healed in ways that his contemporaries expected. He worked in the world in which he lived. That’s part of the wonder of the incarnation: that God showed up in the world in a particular time, a particular place, a particular culture, a particular worldview. This should shape how we expect to meet Jesus: not necessarily in miracles (although I’m sure Jesus can and will still move miraculously from time to time), but within the ways we think the world works. God can surely show up in our own culture and worldview, too.

A member of my family has a chronic form of cancer, and consequently he catches every germ that goes around. Colds, sinus infections, flu, covid, if it’s circulating, he’s probably going to get it. In recent years, that has made air travel tricky, and after every long trip he would inevitably catch a cold that turned into a raging and long lasting sinus infection. Last year a doctor recommended sinus surgery in hopes that colds wouldn’t linger so long. We are now months after that surgery, and I’m not sure he’s caught a single cold since. During a recent family vacation involving long flights and in which several people on the trip caught Covid, he stayed healthy the whole time. Y’all, it was sinus surgery. The cancer is not cured. Nothing “miraculous” about it. And yet the result has been so dramatic that it feels like a miracle. I don’t expect to meet Jesus in something as mundane as sinus surgery and yet, as my sister-in-law would say, “It smells like Jesus.”

We have opportunities to meet Jesus over and over again, if only we have eyes to see and ears to hear. Because friends, Jesus is surely showing up. Paul claimed to be all things for all people so that some might be saved, but our Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah, is truly all things for all people so that all may be saved. He met the magi astrologers in a star, Nathaniel under the fig tree, Andrew and Simon, James and John in their boats, the people of Capernaum in a neighbor’s home. And everyone of them, their lives were changed. The magi went home a different, Nathaniel, Andrew, Simon, and James are stopped what they were doing and followed practically a stranger. The people of Capernaum found themselves with a new lease on life. Where have you met Jesus? And where do you expect to see him again? Because friends, I promise you this, Jesus is showing up for you, again and again, in all kinds of circumstances, perhaps in the places we least expect, which is to say the most mundane of ways.Whether you are out hunting him down, the magi and the disciples, or you are going about your daily routine, like Simon and Andrew and the demon-possessed man in the synagogue, Jesus is there. Are you looking for him? #presence 

In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, one God and Mother of us all, as it was in the beginning, is now, and shall be forever. Amen.

  

---

[[1]](#_ftnref1) https://www.christianitytoday.com/ct/2023/october-web-only/beth-greco-hoving-home-testimony-addiction-mental-illness.html