#ordination #discipleship #membership #community #purpose 

<iframe frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay" src="https://sermons.logos.com/embed/sermons/1240814" width="600" height="392"></iframe>
[[Mark 1]]

- Today's a particularly special day in the life of the church.
- Not only are we ordaining new elders and installing previously ordained elders, but we're also welcoming two new members into our community.
- It's so rare to have these things happen all at once, but when it does, it celebrates the life of the community growing and thriving.
- It's also a joy to walk through this service together with everyone.  We ask specific questions of each other, we respond - every single one of us have a role and a commitment.
- And if we really listen and absorb the questions and let them linger, we might be anxious about what is really asked of us.
	- Elders are asked for instance if they'll promise to further the peace, unity, and purity of the church... that we'll pray for and seek to serve people with energy, intelligence, imagination, and love.
	- You, the congregation, will be asked to pray for our elders - encourage them, respect their decisions, and follow as they guide.
	- ...I was also asked many of the same questions as the ruling elders today (and that I would be a faithful minister of word and sacrament, proclaim the good news, teach faith and care for the people), and you were also asked additional questions of me - you'd provide for my welfare and stand by me in trouble and share my joys, listen to the word I preach, welcome my pastoral care, honor my authority as I seek to honor and obey Jesus Christ.
	- And our new members are asked if they'll be faithful members of the congregation, share in worship and mission through prayers and gifts, study and service, to fulfill their calling to be a disciple of Jesus Christ.
- This all sounds wonderful and lovely, but over time, these are all tested.  And as they are tested, I think we question how we can measure up.
- Today, in our texts, we are given comfort as we answer that question.
	- Mark, for all his directness and lack of detail in his gospel, wants to make it a point to let us know the occupations of the first disciples that Jesus calls: Simon and Andrew aren't just fishing for fun: they're professional fishermen.  James and John also seem to be fishermen, spending time repairing their boats.
	- And Jesus speaks to them in their profession: follow me, he says, and more directly - you will become fishermen for people... the word here is about transformation and process... they will take who they are, and through the journey be changed.
	- Jesus does not begin his ministry with the kind of folks who were trained in theology or spending their days at the temple.  Instead, he goes to everyday people, and through the journey with him, will take who they already are and their gifts and use them in ministry.  And moreover, the expectation is not that now they're disciples, somehow they have to graduate into something completely different.  Far from it.  They will continue to hone the skills they have, but now apply them to the work of the gospel.  This is discipleship and its core - taking who we are on a transformative journey.  While we may leave the trappings of the past behind, we do not abandon ourselves in the process.  No, instead, we are invited to be who we are in total and through the journey be changed.
	- And, as we continue through the stories of the gospels, we see how the disciples will grow, will stumble, will learn, but Jesus never once questions that they were called, and that they were gifts in God's Commonwealth.
- This gospel message rings out as truly today as it did with those four fishermen as they met Jesus for the first time - who you are today is worth so, so much.  It's worth discipleship from the Savior of the World.  The one that was sought by wise men, feared by Kings, and who would change the course of history, leading us to a day like today when we make another set of commitments to one another in love.
- All that we are now - the gifts, the skills, the foibles, the imperfections - Jesus still invites us to come along.  It isn't the perfection that matters; it's the willingness to be transformed - to be willing to be changed.
- And there is comfort more to know that even when we trip up, God still does not abandon God's purpose.
	- When we meet Jonah today, we see him at his finest moment - he's doing the work of the prophet.
	- What is left out is the fact that he first tried to avoid going to Ninevah because he didn't want God to forgive them, and Jonah's complaining later that God did what God promised God would do - the thing that Jonah didn't want to have happen - and he's annoyed at God's grace.
	- But even as Jonah imperfectly does what he's called to do, God's grace is made known.
	- So even if we, too, find our hearts wanting to wander away from the promises we all make today, we can rest in the fact that it the success or failure of it all is not ours to bear.  While we might wander off the path, God will continue to offer us a way back.
	- Again, it isn't the perfection that matters, it's the willingness to be changed.
- And so, friends, as we speak these words to each other, and once again make the promises to each other, remember that you are who Jesus Christ is seeking.  You are good.  Your gifts are what God desires.  Hear the questions and respond just as the early disciples did - be willing to take who you are today and allow it to be transformed into the holy ministries and acts of discipleships to which we are all called.  Take comfort that when we would rather ignore God's call, or find fault in it, God will continue to extend grace and forgiveness even to those people who might upset us the most - just as we're loved for who we are, so are they.  Because there, dear siblings in Christ, is the good news of the gospel made manifest here in our little corner of Jacksonville.  Thanks be to God.