#power #God #CS-Lewis #transfiguration #wonder #fear 

<iframe frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay" src="https://sermons.logos.com/embed/sermons/1251516" width="600" height="392"></iframe>

[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Mark/Mark 9]]
- One of the best parts of living in Jacksonville is the unique geography of being close to a Naval Air Base and often in the course of rockets taking off from the space coast
- We're often busy with something outside, and then suddenly a sonic boom envelops us, we start to look skyward, certain we know what it is.
- And maybe some of us have gotten used to the noise, but certainly when it increases - like it did for the Naval exercises a couple weeks ago - we're reminded of the way these roaring sounds stop us in our tracks.  We get the chance to listen.  We hear the power.
- If we didn't know better - if we were in the middle of nowhere - these might frighten us.  But because we know what they are, they rarely if ever elicit a reaction.  Maybe just a curiosity, nothing more.  There's a sense of control we muster when we know.  
- But, should we even take a moment to let emotion wash over us - letting ourselves be swept up by the wonder of multi-ton hunks of steel hurtling themselves around the curve of the earth, bending what seems remotely possible with our frail abilities, well, we might be in awe again.
- This year, when preparing for this transfiguration Sunday, I had a chance to read David Bentley Hart's fine new translation of the New Testament.  He works in a painstaking way to provide a literal reading, at times drawing us to hear these text differently.
	- He, for instance, translates that when Jesus transfigured in front of Peter, James, and John, "his garments became an exceedingly brilliant white, a white such as no fuller on earth can produce."
		- This, certainly, helps to give us some better context.  This is the explosiveness of unknown sonic booms.  It's the type of thing that shatters our sense of what is possible in a normal day.  Imagine the brightest, shining brilliance and you will not be able to match what happens to Jesus up on this high mountain.
		- This otherworldly moment spurns Peter's response, but Hart takes a decidedly different approach as to why: "for he did not know what expostulation to make; for they had become extremely afraid."
			- If you're like me and don't use expostulate in your everyday vocabulary, the Oxford dictionary defines it as "to reason earnestly with a person for purposes of dissuasion or remonstrance, or a forcefully reproachful protest."
			- What is striking then, is that Peter, in the face of this wild, otherworldly happening where God's Spirit again lands on this Holy One, Peter sought a reproach... he sought explanation... he sought some control.  Something to make sense of what he was witnessing.  If the Spirit's spotlight shining upon Jesus with Elijah and Moses could be held, put into a tent, then there might be a way to understand all that was happening.  After all, witnessing something that falls out of our control can be frightening.
	- But here, we might do well to also hear again CS Lewis's words, penned in the Chronicles of Narnia about Aslan the lion king: Lucy, one of the main characters asks if Aslan is safe... the response?  "Who said anything about safe? 'Course he isn't safe.  But he's good.  He's the king I tell you... He's wild, you know.  Not a tame lion."
	- Here, on this holy transfiguration day, we're asked to consider what lion we have here in front of us.  One whose goodness shines such as no fuller on earth can produce.  Should we for a moment take that seriously, I'd say we'd be apt to leap from our pews.  But, perhaps we are more like Peter than we might want to ever imagine.  To have to suspend our sense of safety to be awash in this goodness as well would mean we'd need to abandon the thought of framing God into whatever booths we'd care to fashion. 
	- Yet, perhaps a question should sit with us: what do we lose?  When was the last time upon thinking of this God we follow did we quake?  When did our hearts burn iridescent?  Is that not why we travel to this mountain each Sunday?  To catch a bit of that bright light, that sonic roar again?  To be in awe of a great power beyond what even our jets and rockets can even approximate?  
	- And I get it, it sounds a little juvenile... maybe a little too evangelical for our frozen chosenness.  Our expostulations swell within us.  But I wonder, with an Ash Wednesday and Holy Lent just around the corner, if it's those remonstrations we need to consider as dust.  What is it like to strip away the fear of worshipping an unsafe, good God?  To just sit in a slack-jawed awe and wonder.  To feel the exhilaration of the gospel - of the Good News of Jesus, God's Beloved One?  What if we just listened?