- We start Sermon Madness this year with a topic that shouldn't be a surprise is on top of everyone's mind: how might the new building change our ministry at SJPC?
- The question is interesting to me - how do our structures change us?  And maybe there is something to that... This week I'd feel more anxious in a trailer or a big house on the river than in my little bungalow on high ground down the street. 
- But in the end, I wonder if it all misdirects us.  
- If a fig tree could talk...
	- I wonder if that's how this fig tree felt, too.
	- Have you ever been in one of these conversations?  You're the main topic of conversation, but folks are talking *about* you and not *at* you?  You're right there, for goodness' sake!
	- And yet, this is still a life-and-death conversation right before this fig tree.
	- Ultimately, this story boils down to production. What will the tree produce?
		- This tree is on prime soil.  The owner of the vineyard would want his due.
		- And what's interesting - even down to the words Luke uses, indicate the disappointment... the owner planted the fig tree in his vineyard - an imperfect word with an open-ended future—the hopes of what could have been.  But then, three years hence, he found no fruit - past tense, completed action.  In one sentence, the owner's story is one of hope and judgment.
		- His disappointment leads to the end for this tree: "Cut it down!" The word for cut has a similar literal and metaphorical meaning—not only an actual blow but a cutting off. Here, the owner decides, this tree is no longer worth the time, energy, or hope.
		- But, goodness, what does that miss?
			- For three years, this tree found its footing.
			- It grew.  For all of the abstraction of the state of the tree, the fact that the owner is only disappointed now tells us that it grew as it should.  Its roots put themselves into the ground.  The branches extended.  Leaves sprung forth and fell off.  Buds burst forth.  There was so much more to this tree in its three years than its fruit.  In fact, it was preparing itself all along for this critical moment.
			- It's not unusual for figs to take at least three, if not up to five years to bear fruit.  They might bear fruit earlier, but often, those don't ripen.  They are warmups for its main show.
			- So, this tree was certainly producing.  It was about its work, doing what it was made to do.  But because the owner expected something else - his own aims - he misses that the tree did exactly what it was supposed to do.
		- But of course, the one about the work, the vinedresser, didn't miss that at all.  
			- Because, after all, we can't imagine that suddenly the vinedresser decided to start working on this tree now.  No, he would have been about the task of care from the moment it was planted.
			- Bovon: "What makes the character of the winegrower loom large is that he was not satisfied with merely asking the owner for an extension of time, nor was he content with attributing the responsibility to the tree alone. No, he did more than just beg, situated as he was between the property owner and the property. He wanted to get personally involved... He was willing to collaborate in saving the fig tree by performing two tasks that would concretize his solidarity with it, namely, providing drink and food for the tree. By digging around the tree, as is still done in our time in the case of olive trees, the humidity, so rare and so necessary for the growth of the fruit that was counted on, would be retained. By putting manure on it, a very unusual procedure, he would demonstrate the intensity of his commitment and his hope, thereby acting in a way similar to parents of a sick child, who do everything they can to save their child."
			- In other words, the vinedresser loved the tree for what it was, and what it could be... so beautifully stated in the Greek, and one we can miss in our English: *karpon eis to mellon*... it's just about to fruit.  He loved and believed.
- So to answer this question, friends, I want to offer that if this text is any indication, the best answer for us should be "it shouldn't."
	- Because I think it offers us a chance to think about where our hearts are at today, just about in the same timeline.  What still looks to the eye of one looking for production is a worthy product to be cut at its roots.  
	- But yet, to the vinedressers, all we have to do is look to see new roots set, branches coming forth.  Leaves have sprung, faded, and grown again.
	- I realize that most of the time when we want fruit, we're not celebrating the branches. That's why I think interim times between fruit are hard. And for any church, it's the less glamorous things, too—it's how committees have strengthened, giving has grown, while stewardship of resources has continued to be thoughtful.  It's long, with session meetings and hours of discussion of vision and strategy.  
	- And if we carry the owner's mindset, we will miss everything that's been done.  We will find it wasteful.  We will set targets for ourselves that ignore the very system that produces them.  We will speak of the ministry of the church while ignoring it - speak about it, but not at it.  And if it fails to meet our expectations, well, then, we'll cut it out - maybe not literally, but perhaps more in our hearts.
	- But yet, we've not really been the owner.  We've all been vinedressers, loving the ministries of this church, providing the sustenance to allow them to thrive.
	- And in our hearts, how we must persist is in the question of the verbs that come from our hearts.  We have to trust that God's called this ministry to be what it is, that we've partnered with the call on our hearts, and have created something good with God's work.

