# Made for Ends
###Deuteronomy 5:12-15; Mark 2:23-3:6

**Deuteronomy 5:12-15**
5:12 Observe the sabbath day and keep it holy, as the LORD your God commanded you. 
5:13 Six days you shall labor and do all your work. 
5:14 But the seventh day is a sabbath to the LORD your God; you shall not do any work--you, or your son or your daughter, or your male or female slave, or your ox or your donkey, or any of your livestock, or the resident alien in your towns, so that your male and female slave may rest as well as you. 
5:15 Remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God brought you out from there with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm; therefore the LORD your God commanded you to keep the sabbath day.

**Mark 2:23-3:6**
2:23 One sabbath he was going through the grainfields; and as they made their way his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. 
2:24 The Pharisees said to him, "Look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the sabbath?" 
2:25 And he said to them, "Have you never read what David did when he and his companions were hungry and in need of food? 
2:26 He entered the house of God, when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and he gave some to his companions." 
2:27 Then he said to them, "The sabbath was made for humankind, and not humankind for the sabbath; 
2:28 so the Son of Man is lord even of the sabbath." 
3:1 Again he entered the synagogue, and a man was there who had a withered hand. 
3:2 They watched him to see whether he would cure him on the sabbath, so that they might accuse him. 
3:3 And he said to the man who had the withered hand, "Come forward." 
3:4 Then he said to them, "Is it lawful to do good or to do harm on the sabbath, to save life or to kill?" But they were silent. 
3:5 He looked around at them with anger; he was grieved at their hardness of heart and said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored. 
3:6 The Pharisees went out and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how to destroy him.
----
Today is a unique and special day for me.  It’s the last time that I will be coming to you as a member of this church (or really any church) to preach.  I don’t think words can adequately ever express how grateful I am to this church for almost the last decade as we have together walked faithfully in Central Ohio, and then by extension together in Austin.  As I’ve said to many of you, this church has been with me, and then Lindsey and the kids throughout some of the biggest moments of our lives - both of celebration and tragedy.  Marriage, miscarriage, birth and baptism, all of us together.  And I know we’ve been thankful to all of you that have stayed connected with us, and particularly Steve Hills as my session liaison who has walked with me from proofreading admission papers all the way through now.  And as I look to the excitement of heading to Old Stone just up the street, I know that who I am in service to them has been shaped by many of you.  It’s been a journey.

Speaking of journeys - I thought I’d tell you all a story of another journey.  How many of you have had to walk with kids for any extended period of time?  If so, then I think you’ll relate.  It begins with a dad who loves his two children very much.  This dad wants to do something special for his kids, and decides that today, they’d go for a walk so that they could get juice at the speciality juice store about a 10 minute walk away.    The dad had planned 30 minutes for the trip. He tells his children and they are excited - they hurriedly put on their shoes and begin to walk with their dad, who feels especially buoyant having delighted the kids and having an end goal in mind.

First comes the sticks on the ground.  The kids must grab a few!  Okay, one diversion; no big deal.  Then come the stones that must be thrown in the creek in order to make a wish.  The dad throws a stone in, wishing the stones weren’t there anymore so that the family would keep moving.

Then a loose shoe.  Then rocks in shoes - how many rocks are there?  Then “please put on your shoes.” Then touching-a-plant-don’t-touch-that-plant-you-don’t-know-if-it’s-poisionous-or-not-can-we-please-get-moving-please time.  The 30 minutes eclipse and the dad can still see the front door of their duplex.  He figures maybe they’ll get there in time for it to close.  Some plan.  Some dad.

Why couldn’t these children know what the dad had in store!  Why couldn’t they just want to get some juice?!  What it is about these kids that has them rather climb a tree or grab a rock than do something that they wanted, they were excited about?!  The dad began to wonder if they had conspired against them.

It is so easy for us to become entrenched in the well worn paths of our own ways, even in the good things, whether it’s getting juice with kids, or perhaps even considering sabbath.  In the Old Testament passage today, we hear the a portion of the 10 Commandments again (Deuteronomy 5 has another telling of the 10 Commandments worded slightly different than Exodus) that tells of the sabbath day - one set aside to refrain from labor and remember who God is and what God has done for God’s people.  Moreover, this commandment is pretty straightforward and direct - work for six days, and on the seventh stop and remember.  Over and over again.

But, of course, questions can begin to arise in that kind of aspiration - we don’t want to wander too far one direction or the other - so new rules began to be put into place to help define what was work and what was not work - guardrails to help understand what is right and what isn’t.  And these seem to be on the Pharisees minds as they encounter Jesus and the disciples going through the grainfields on the Sabbath day.  We can imagine Jesus perhaps just a little bit ahead of the rest of the disciples as the Pharisees come up to Jesus and ask “hey, what are your buddies doing?  Don’t they know they’re not following the Sabbath?”  And what follows is one of the earliest examples of how quoting Scripture back at someone in an argument doesn’t seem to help anyone: Jesus tells the story of David in 1 Samuel 21 for us, but it seems to have made no impact on the Pharisees.  

Jesus then continues: “The Sabbath was made for humankind, and not humankind for the sabbath.”  And in this juxtaposition, we can begin to understand the rest of the Gospel passage today.  I think we are all familiar with the last part of Jesus’ phrase: that we were made for the Sabbath.  That we must attain a certain level, live a particular life, and follow particular rules, or we will be lost forever.  Our understanding of ourselves in relationship to the holy is one of maintenance and ritual to achieve our hopes - our faithful lives are on our straight and narrow, well-guarded paths.  

Instead, Jesus offers an alternative - that the Sabbath was made for us.  That all of the laws and rituals set before us are not the ends but the means towards meeting a God of love with who invites us not to do but to be.  That our relationship to the holy one is not just the maintenance and ritual - our faithful lives are on the path that follow Jesus, even if they require moments in the tall grass beyond the path: a chance to discover God’s grace working in the world anew.

This is what we see in the second half of the gospel.  Mark tells us that after the initial conversation, Jesus enters the synagogue - heading down the straight path of Sabbath day, when there happens to be a man with a withered hand.  Jesus invites the man forward, and to paraphrase, Jesus asks “is it worth it for me to walk off of this designed path to be part of what we are hoping to head towards anyway?  Isn’t it better to witness God just a little off the trail?  Isn’t this what we’re trying to do, anyway?”

The Pharisees say nothing, which speaks volumes to Jesus - to the point where he is angry, and performs a healing.  Now, I realize for some of us, this is a difficult thing to think about - Jesus heals someone out of anger - or that Jesus is angry at this moment anyway.  In the Greek, the word used here that we translate as anger is not just a sudden, flashing anger, but a type of indignation, a swelling up based on opposition - a type of anger that comes with the grief of seeing others so hardened that they cannot perhaps see the goodness of God ready to be revealed right in front of them; a type of anger that we might feel when we witness the stubbornness of our trails of righteousness.

Lest we consider that this is an issue confined into this moment in Mark, I don’t consider it a far stretch to consider our moments of well-trod paths societally and politically, perhaps even in the way we treat each other in the church.  We have all found our meaningful tracks that are all well trod.  We become each other’s Pharisees - asking if the one side really knew how the other was violating our closely held rules that lead us towards righteousness?  

Meanwhile, as we argue the varying virtues of our paths and excoriate the others, there are those like the man sitting with a withered hand, waiting to hear that there might be healing for them, too.  That they are worth more to us, and to the world than the debates that we engage in.  Many, many other moments of God’s grace just outside of the tracks we’ve created for ourselves.

Who finally is the indignant one?  Who finally asks in the midst of Pharisees “is it lawful to do good?  To save life?”.  Who grieves at the hardness of the hearts of each of us who lived for the law and the debate and not towards the God who desires us to remember what God has done for us - healed and rescued us, over and over again. Blessed are they, for they carry the heart of Jesus Christ and care for the broken within our midst, even perhaps those arguing the loudest.

If Mark’s gospel can remind us of anything, it is that God’s grace rises above any structure we can put on it.  That the law is not the final answer, but the grace within and beyond it.  That every edict can lead towards love and healing.    Sure, the end goal of these laws are good and meaningful, but when Jesus Christ points to those whose life may be saved, we do well to follow where it leads.  And it may not always be in the biggest and most tragic moments of our lives, but in so many of the simple ways that we believe we were made for all variety of Sabbaths, and not that the Sabbath was made for us.

Which brings us back to the story of the dad and his two children.  The dad wondered about a conspiracy against him, until he heard their laugh.  Joyful.  Alive.  The dad saw the way they moved with quickened pace towards easily climbed tree, its bark smoothed by so many children’s feet running up and down it.  How they were more at home in the moments they could move around and celebrate the world and not just head to a specific, determined destination.  How much would the dad have lost, he wondered, if he had just pushed the children like he wanted - to follow his imposed special moments towards a juice bar?  What would his children had lost?  And so, after a little bit more internal consternation, the dad finally decided that perhaps the most important thing was not getting to the store but being with his kids.  And so they swung on a swing set.  They gathered rocks.  They watched ants gather food for their nest.  They were the created and not the creators, witnessing a great God and, whether they realized it or not, remembered the God of Sabbath.  They all eventually got to the juice store, but the dad was convinced that it tasted a bit more sweet than it may have before.  Such are the gifts of grace.