One of my friends that will be graduating this May told me on Friday that we were at the 100 day point before graduation.  When she told me, it felt ceremonious: no more triple-digits.  It also made me think of where I’ve been. I’ve tried to remember who I was in February of 2015.  It’s becoming more difficult to remember.  It’s harder for me to see Abe as a toddler (Frankie was a still as-yet unnamed child-to-come).  Admittedly, I struggle with this.  As I watch Abe get older, I wish I could get back into some of those moments in photos - the first time he smiled, the first time he walked.  I miss those people in the photos.  One part might be nostalgia, but I think more that there is security in a complete memory.  I can tell you a whole story in each of those moments, beginning, middle, end.  I know the circumstances, the emotions.  But, as time goes along, more and more of these are faded away on account of a never-ending march forward, always marching into an unknown place where I can see or tell anything.  I might know graduation is at the end of 93 days, but do I really?  At best I’m laying old stories I still remember into future moments, the best path I have in my possession.

I find that this is one of the hardest parts of humanity.  Our finitude, to know what lies ahead and to remember with clarity what had past, and try to grasp at what we can in the present for as long as we can.  And it is apparently something that our family in faith has struggled with as well.  Elisha is walking with Elijah, and it becomes ever more apparent that the next part of the journey will be Elisha’s alone.  You begin to hear the desperation in his voice as the chorus speaks ever more forcefully: “Elijah’s leaving soon.  Elijah’s leaving soon.”  I almost hear him saying “shut up everyone, I know!  I know!”  Elisha did not want to stop on the path he knew with his mentor, following him until the last.  We leave him here with eyes fixed on a horizon where he knows he can’t go, torn clothing in grief.

Mark writes of a similar feeling for the early disciples - they climb up a hill and Jesus becomes resplendent.  Often times, I think Peter gets cast as a bit of a fool, but I think here he’s speaking honestly this dilemma - “Jesus, this seems like a good moment to take it all in.  Why don’t we hang out here for a while?  I can get a couple tents, we can chill with Moses and Elijah!”  And as soon as the words are out of Peter’s mouth, God speaks and everything’s back to normal - the snapshot gone, story written.  And yet Jesus brings them off the mountain and says that they can’t even talk about what they’ve seen, until “after the Son of Man had risen from the dead” - another moment alone fixed on the horizon. #time #journey #transfiguration 

What worries me most about this is that not only are we finite, we might not be built to be stationary:  Our lives are connected to the God of the cosmos that drives us along, out of our control.  Elisha doesn’t get Elijah back.  Neither do the disciples.  I’ll never get day 100 back to revisit: good, bad, indifferent.  My days will continue to pass until finally, I’ve passed.  Another moment alone fixed on the horizon.

But amongst every Polaroid picture passing, there is a light.  Amidst every day that moves, there is portion that shines.  When we’ve stared into the unknown horizon, there has remained the bright morning star, who shined brightly on the day of Transfiguration.  While we, in our finitude, only see just a little before us, the light shines through every present moment.  We can trust that the God who has set the world in motion and calls from heaven, bringing all to life with a voice is with us in our past, present, and future.  

It’s not to say that following the path means that it will be clear or easy.  I might not want to know what’s after graduation, or what’s going to happen to my children, or to this nation, or to history itself.  But I wonder if it is exactly when we try to stop walking and live in our pictures that the light becomes veiled.  That no matter how hard we try, we know that the memories of the past are growing dimmer because we slowly become blinded by the world we hope to live in and lose God who beckons us.  That when we stop walking, we perish, even in the most tender moments we’d hope to live in forever.  

And so friends, let us pray to walk faithfully being illumined us one step at a time, the Christ-light is in us, a holy companion.  And as we walk, may we know the good news that no matter where we walk, we walk with the Spirit of God, the same who holds the cosmos.  Amen.