Psalm 139:1-6, 13-18
139:1 O LORD, you have searched me and known me.
139:2 You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from far away.
139:3 You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways.
139:4 Even before a word is on my tongue, O LORD, you know it completely.
139:5 You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me.
139:6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is so high that I cannot attain it.
139:13 For it was you who formed my inward parts; you knit me together in my mother's womb.
139:14 I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; that I know very well.
139:15 My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth.
139:16 Your eyes beheld my unformed substance. In your book were written all the days that were formed for me, when none of them as yet existed.
139:17 How weighty to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
139:18 I try to count them -- they are more than the sand; I come to the end -- I am still with you.

John 1:43-51
1:43 The next day Jesus decided to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, "Follow me."
1:44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
1:45 Philip found Nathanael and said to him, "We have found him about whom Moses in the law and also the prophets wrote, Jesus son of Joseph from Nazareth."
1:46 Nathanael said to him, "Can anything good come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and see."
1:47 When Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him, he said of him, "Here is truly an Israelite in whom there is no deceit!"
1:48 Nathanael asked him, "Where did you get to know me?" Jesus answered, "I saw you under the fig tree before Philip called you."
1:49 Nathanael replied, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are the King of Israel!"
1:50 Jesus answered, "Do you believe because I told you that I saw you under the fig tree? You will see greater things than these."
1:51 And he said to him, "Very truly, I tell you, you will see heaven opened and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man."

Last week, I talked a little about a poet named Dylan Thomas.  Around the same time Thomas was writing, TS Eliot was storming through his career.  Eliot is one of my favorite poets, and in 1915, Eliot published one of my favorite poems of all time, The Love Song of J Alfred Prufrock.  In particular, as I was preparing for this week, a couple stanzas seemed to connect:

And indeed there will be time
For the yellow smoke that slides along the street,
Rubbing its back upon the window-panes;
There will be time, there will be time
To prepare a face to meet the faces that you meet;
There will be time to murder and create,
And time for all the works and days of hands
That lift and drop a question on your plate;
Time for you and time for me,
And time yet for a hundred indecisions,
And for a hundred visions and revisions,
Before the taking of a toast and tea.

In the room the women come and go
Talking of Michelangelo.

And indeed there will be time
To wonder, “Do I dare?” and, “Do I dare?”
Time to turn back and descend the stair,
With a bald spot in the middle of my hair —
(They will say: “How his hair is growing thin!”)
My morning coat, my collar mounting firmly to the chin,
My necktie rich and modest, but asserted by a simple pin —
(They will say: “But how his arms and legs are thin!”)
Do I dare
Disturb the universe?
In a minute there is time
For decisions and revisions which a minute will reverse.

For I have known them all already, known them all:
Have known the evenings, mornings, afternoons,
I have measured out my life with coffee spoons;
I know the voices dying with a dying fall
Beneath the music from a farther room.
               So how should I presume?

(Riff on the summary - attempting to put yourself together and get to be in a moment, but not being sure.  Do I run back.  The questions begin to mount - who will they think I am?  And of course we already know our answers, “I have measured out my life with coffee spoons.”)

While on the surface, “Prufrock” can have us imagine the monologue of a sexually frustrated middle aged man, sections like this have me wonder if there isn’t something more. Some critics have argued that instead, this represents some who felt disillusioned by society, but yet was more afraid of being rejected.  He did not want to be known.

And just as Thomas last week seemed to put his finger on the pulse of our desire to rage, Eliot through J Alfred Prufrock puts his finger upon what the struggle of people to be known for who they are.  This type of tension starts so early in the first moment that you may realize your different.  Keith Payne, a psychologist and professor at UNC Chapel Hill who studies #inequality, mentions the first time he felt the struggle:

He was in fourth grade, standing in line in the cafeteria of his elementary school, in western Kentucky. Payne didn’t pay for meals—his family’s income was low enough that he qualified for free school lunch—and normally the cashier just waved him through. But on this particular day there was someone new at the register, and she asked Payne for a dollar twenty-five, which he didn’t have. He was mortified. Suddenly, he realized that he was different from the other kids, who were walking around with cash in their pockets.

“That moment changed everything for me,” Payne says. Although in strictly economic terms nothing had happened—Payne’s family had just as much (or as little) money as it had the day before—that afternoon in the cafeteria he became aware of which rung on the ladder he occupied. He grew embarrassed about his clothes, his way of talking, even his hair, which was cut at home with a bowl. “Always a shy kid, I became almost completely silent at school,” he recalls.

Now, Payne was no longer the child known for other things.  He could have been smart, funny, hopeful, kind, angry, terrible, hateful.  But instead, he’s exposed as one thing - poor.  He is only known as one thing - poor.  And sure, there may be others that know him for something other than that, but what a weight to have to carry!  We can hear Payne asking, even in that fourth grade snapshot “Do I Dare Disturb the Universe?”

You may be thinking of a moment that you were worried about disturbing the universe as well.  And I think once we resolve that question for ourselves, we begin to fashion our lives in order to guarantee that we will live into that answer for as long as we can.  But yet, we long for someone to break through that to find our self - a Health Affairs report found that Americans spend over 200 billion dollars a year in different therapies - we spend more on mental health than we do any other kind of care - more than cancer care and heart care.  And while a portion of that goes to folks who have serious and persistent mental health issues, I imagine for a good portion, folks are looking to be known.  To pay someone to probe the inner parts of us to expose who we are to ourselves and to someone else.  That exposure, in spite of our fears at time, brings us some joy and satisfaction - and sometimes it doesn’t even need to be that specific.  We feel good when our spouse recognizes a pattern in us (maybe that we pick a certain type of taco every time we get one).  We like people can find the smallest detail in us and show that yes, they see us, and yes, we are known.

Our Psalmist today finds that same kind of satisfaction the Psalm today.  

To begin, the psalmist addresses God directly, using the personal name of Israel's God, Yahweh (1, 4). Second person pronouns occur ten times in the first six verses:  "you have searched," "you know," "you discern," etc. In addition, the psalmist refers to self thirteen times: "you have searched me and known me," "when I sit down and when I rise up," "my thoughts," "my path," etc.
With this abundance of first and second person pronouns in the first six verses, Psalm 139 reflects the profound relationship of the "I" and "You" (or, "I" and "Thou") in ancient Israel. Walter Brueggemann describes this relationship by saying, "The Psalms are prayers addressed to a known, named, identifiable You. This is the most stunning and decisive factor in the prayers of the Psalter."2  In a book titled Tales of the Hasadim, Martin Buber, an early twentieth-century Jewish philosopher, offered these words concerning the relationship between God and humankind:

Where I wander - You!  
Where I ponder - You!  
Only You, You again, always You!  
You! You! You!  
When I am gladdened - You!  
When I am saddened - You!  
Only You, You again, always You!  
You! You! You!  
Sky is You, Earth is You!  
You above! You below!  
In every trend, at every end,  
Only You, You again, always You!  
You! You! You!

The close relationship between the psalmist and God is not only emphasized in the language of "I" and "thou" in Psalm 139, but also in the repetition of the verbal root yada' (to know), which occurs seven times (1, 2, 4, 6, 14, and twice in 23). Yada' is a rich word in biblical Hebrew, covering a whole range of meanings - from simple recognition to intimate sexual relationship. In Genesis 4, we read that Adam "knew (yada') his wife Eve, and she conceived and bore Cain" (Genesis 4:1). Elsewhere, God tells the people they will "know that I am the LORD" (Ezekiel 6:7, 13). Job adds, in 5:27, "See, we have searched this out; it is true. Hear, and know it for yourself." Some form of this word occurs sixty times in the Psalter, emphasizing that the concept of "knowledge" is a critical element of meaningful relationship.  We are to know God, just as God knows us. As the psalmist says, "It was you who formed my inward parts; you knit me together in my mother's womb" 

In the Gospel text, we can see this wrestling up close when God through Jesus knows us.  I try to imagine who Nathanael is in the moments before meeting Jesus.  (Riff)

And then, in this moment, Jesus says that 