---
date: 2020-06-07
lectionary: year a
bible:
  - "[[Bible/Amos/Amos 5|Amos 5]]"
  - "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 4]]"
title: Thy Kingdom Come Before We're Done
tags:
  - "#COVID"
  - "#justice"
  - "#abundance"
  - "#freedom"
  - "#hope"
---
# 6.7.20

* Right now, in the mail, there are letters heading to almost everyone that will outline what the church’s plans are for the summer.  It includes our getting back together outside so that we can see each other so more.  We’re going to try, as best we can, to get ourselves back to getting together and seeing each other.  
* This was an unprecendented moment in the history of our nation, and of the church.  We have a chance to see ourselves more clearly, and take a moment to think about who and what we want to be moving forward.  And, our current cultural moments demands it.  
* The two passages here today set the tone for the rest of the month.  They give us a why we should care and a how we should do it.
* AMOS
	* Amos was a Judean farmer that went up north to prophesy to the Kingdom of Israel.
		* Israel was at the height of its power, and it received money from all sorts of other smaller kingdoms - including Judah.
		* As a result, it was wealthy, and it lived like that.  Amos talks about people who spend their time lying on beds of ivory, eating and drinking wine from bowls, but “are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph” - no one seems to be concerned about the rotting of the society around them.  They don’t seem to be terribly concerned about the people who were struggling (because, in Amos estimation, there was significant manipulation to the benefit of the powerful)
	* Amos then turns to their worship.
		* This passage makes calls to mind our current rush to head back to worship across the country, and all the work so many have done to get back.  If we take Amos at his word, we’re putting our energies in the wrong place.
		* God tells us through Amos that unless there is justice and righteousness that are moving like water across the land, God doesn’t care too much about our worship.  In fact, God resents it - rejects our worship with contempt.  God demands not rite but right, devotion not devotions. (Shalom Paul)
		* It begs the question, then - why should we go back now if we aren’t working towards justice and righteousness?
	* When we try to answer that question, I imagine we’d get the same response that Jesus got in Luke.
		* It’s frustrating to think that all the good that is promised in the gospels is not ours to carry the whole time and hoard.  That our faith requires action.  
		* The beloved community cannot become a Sunday social club where we listen to a milquetoast speaker deliver a safe speech that allows us to head home being amazed at gracious words.  We have to at some point be challenged to do more especially when the culture we’ve been called to steward demands it.
		* But say or do that too often in too many churches, and people will get run out.  So for many of us, our prophetic muscle atrophies.
		* So again, this time invites us to think about how we strengthen it.  For the next few weeks, we’re going to zone in on what Jesus says his ministry is.  If we’re truly going to be followers of Jesus and return to church, we ought to focus on what he says is supposed to happen.
	* Bring good news to the poor - 
	* Release and recovery - what’s it like to tell new stories about who we are?  What is it like to believe that there are other stories that tell of God’s love.
	* Freedom and abundance -
