# 3/15 - Lent 3

Welcome, Announcements, Prayer

Prelude

Call to Worship: 
**O God who promises to hear our prayers,**
**Hear us as we worship You!**
**O God who desires justice roll down like water,**
**Hear us as we worship You!**
**O God who seeks our deepest heart,**
**Hear us as we worship You!**
**O God of all,**
**Hear us as we worship You!**

Commentary:  Scripture invites us to a tension when it comes to prayer - we are able to seek God, who responds to us in our needs and our joys, yet prayer alone is not just what God seeks.

\* Opening Hymn:  Sweet Hour of Prayer
Commentary: Sometimes during His earthly ministry, Jesus would withdraw to a secluded place to pray (Mark 1:35, Luke 5:16, etc.). The early church followed His practice of regular prayer (Acts 2:42), and Paul encouraged its continuance in some of his letters. He wrote, “Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving” (Colossians 4:2 ESV). This hymn is an expression of the joy that can come when believers, individually and corporately, pray regularly.

\* Prayer of Confession
_Friends__, in our journey, God is with us, and always willing to hear us when we cry for grace.  Let us then_ _approach_ _God with our corporate confessions, saying:_

**Gracious God,**
**Forgive us for the things we’ve done,**
**And the things we’ve left undone:**

**For the ways we’ve not sought the prayers we utter:**
**The ways that we believe that "thy Kingdom come, thy will be done”**
**Is empty promise, and not a present and coming reality.**

**For the ways we’ve lacked the will to work towards the prayers we utter:**
**Instead believing that words speak louder than actions.**

**Help us to believe what we speak, and to then respond,**
**Just as you, O Gracious God, respond to us.**

Commentary:  The tension of prayer also relates to what it means for us to speak the words, and then not follow it up with action.  Often, the lack of action is as much an issue of belief - as the Centurian says to Jesus “Help me in my unbelief!”  As people who are journeying towards victory over death, how can beliefs about what Jesus overcomes translate into what happens here for us now?  How can our prayers become reality?  While so much, of course, is in God’s hands, we’re not necessarily asked just simply to sit idly.

\* Assurance of Pardon
_Hear the waters of baptism, the sounds of our forgiveness._
Friends and family, let us remember.
**We are called.**
**We are beloved.**
**We are forgiven.**

\* Passing of the Peace
The peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 
**And also with you.**
Let us share a sign of that peace to one another.    

Commentary: As we continue on this journey through Lent together, this beautiful hymn is a reminder of our guide and example.

Children’s Time 

Prayer for Illumination: 
Gracious God, 
give us humble, teachable, and obedient hearts, 
that we may receive what you have revealed, 
and do what you have commanded. **Amen.**

Reading: Luke 11:1–4 (NRSV)
1He was praying in a certain place, and after he had finished, one of his disciples said to him, “Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples.”
2He said to them, “When you pray, say: Father, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come.
3Give us each day our daily bread.
4And forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone indebted to us. And do not bring us to the time of trial.”

Reading:  James 5:13–20 (NRSV)
13Are any among you suffering? They should pray. Are any cheerful? They should sing songs of praise.
14Are any among you sick? They should call for the elders of the church and have them pray over them, anointing them with oil in the name of the Lord.
15The prayer of faith will save the sick, and the Lord will raise them up; and anyone who has committed sins will be forgiven.
16Therefore confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, so that you may be healed. The prayer of the righteous is powerful and effective.
17Elijah was a human being like us, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth.
18Then he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain and the earth yielded its harvest.
19My brothers and sisters, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and is brought back by another,
20you should know that whoever brings back a sinner from wandering will save the sinner’s soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.

Message: Journeying Through Lent with Prayer

\* Hymn: Came To My Rescue

Commentary: 

\* Affirmation of Faith:
**We believe in God, Creator and Creating;**
**who gives us steadfast love, and shares with us our joy,**
**and sustains us in our suffering.**
**We trust in God’s power in the world.**

**We follow Jesus Christ, fully God, fully human.**
**In death was victory, in resurrection was hope;**
**in him the Word became flesh; in him we are offered**
**forgiveness from sin, renewal from failure, reconciliation**
**from brokenness, release from despair.**

**We are guided by the Holy Spirit, God’s presence in the world.**

**By the Spirit we are called into the Church,**
**to celebrate love, seek justice and resist evil,**
**to proclaim Jesus, crucified and risen,**
**to share with Christ’s Baptism and to eat at Christ’s Table.**

**Because we are God’s disciples, a pilgrim people,**
**we joyfully covenant with each other to walk together in love,**
**pray for one another, care for one another,**
**And live in holy community, in life, in death, in life beyond death.**

**God is with us. We are not alone. Thanks be to God.**

Prayers of the People

The Lord’s Prayer

Offering

Doxology

\* Hymn - There’s A Wideness in God’s Mercy

Commentary: Frederick William Faber's text is a picture of the relational nature of our prayer life.

\* Charge and Benediction 

\* Postlude

Closing Commentary:  On Ash Wednesday, these words were spoken:

I invite you, therefore, in the name of Christ,
to observe a holy Lent
by self-examination and penitence,
by prayer and fasting,
by works of love,
and by meditating on God’s word.

None of the ways that we observe lent are independent of each other.  We understand ourselves better through prayer and fasting.  Through works of love, we’re able to give more of ourselves, realizing in part what fasting can be.  As we wander through a Lent that now has become a bit more complex with the worries of disease, we have a chance to explore all the ways that these practices can help us.
