[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/1 Peter/1 Pet 4]]
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/1 Peter/1 Pet 5]]
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 17]]

# 5.24.20

**1 Peter 4:12-14; 5:6-11**
4:12 Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal that is taking place among you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you.
4:13 But rejoice insofar as you are sharing Christ's sufferings, so that you may also be glad and shout for joy when his glory is revealed.
4:14 If you are reviled for the name of Christ, you are blessed, because the spirit of glory, which is the Spirit of God, is resting on you.
5:6 Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that he may exalt you in due time.
5:7 Cast all your anxiety on him, because he cares for you.
5:8 Discipline yourselves, keep alert. Like a roaring lion your adversary the devil prowls around, looking for someone to devour.
5:9 Resist him, steadfast in your faith, for you know that your brothers and sisters in all the world are undergoing the same kinds of suffering.
5:10 And after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, support, strengthen, and establish you.
5:11 To him be the power forever and ever. Amen.

**John 17:1-11**
17:1 After Jesus had spoken these words, he looked up to heaven and said, "Father, the hour has come; glorify your Son so that the Son may glorify you,
17:2 since you have given him authority over all people, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him.
17:3 And this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
17:4 I glorified you on earth by finishing the work that you gave me to do.
17:5 So now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had in your presence before the world existed.
17:6 "I have made your name known to those whom you gave me from the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
17:7 Now they know that everything you have given me is from you;
17:8 for the words that you gave to me I have given to them, and they have received them and know in truth that I came from you; and they have believed that you sent me.
17:9 I am asking on their behalf; I am not asking on behalf of the world, but on behalf of those whom you gave me, because they are yours.
17:10 All mine are yours, and yours are mine; and I have been glorified in them.
17:11 And now I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, protect them in your name that you have given me, so that they may be one, as we are one.

* The Peter passage this week is very on the nose for a Sunday that we remember those who have fallen in war, and also those who have passed during this recent pandemic, soon perhaps to be over 100,000 before the end of the month.  Even locally to this church, we’re struggling with some delay and losses of summer programming.  We aren’t doing reach this year, and VBS is being delayed until we know what’s happening.
* However, in the midst of all we’ve talked about up to this point - Christ ahead of us, Spirit with us - we’ve not talked a whole lot about now.  How do we handle this moment and this time?
* Let’s walk through Peter together and see what insights come.
	* The first part of our Peter passage gives us a “why” while the second part is the “how"
		* Beloved, do not be surprised - “affected with novelty.”  We should not be shocked that difficult things happen.  At a certain point, we have to remember that though we are redeemed, the world is still broken.  Bad things do in fact occur, and they’ll happen to us.  
		* Rejoice?  That’s hard to do, and when we do, it often feels like a “fake it until we make it.”   As equally truthful statement is that Christ has shared in suffering with us.  Again, we aren’t alone in this time, or any time we suffer.  The fully God, fully human savior of the world is beside us in our pain.  That reversal is worth a celebration.
		* Reviled = harshly criticized.  More often than not, as people of faith we will stand against the cultural tide.  We will preference the weak over the strong, we speak on sensitive topics in ways that are difficult but honest, and through it all, we value love over everything else.  The further we drift from what cultural standards are out there, the more we will be criticized.  Again, we shouldn’t be surprised when it happens.  Look at the gospels.
		* In sum, Peter is telling us that bad things are going to happen, and we shouldn’t act as though it isn’t.  And if we respond with the gospel at the center, we’re likely to be 
	* So how do we manage in times of difficulty?
		* Be humble.  This is not the “I’m humbled that you made me something so high” kind of thing.  Instead, it’s an idea that we’re bringing ourselves intentionally to a lower station.  We place ourselves in with those who are helpless, powerless, and perceived as insignificant.  We have to come alongside the fearful and walk beside them, not place ourselves above them, and not revile them.
		* Yeet our anxiety.  The word here is more like a hurl.  It doesn’t mean we won’t be anxious or worried or frustrated, but those feelings can be given away powerfully and quickly.
		* Discipline - a better word here is “sober up.”  We encourage one another to look at the circumstances right in the eye, knowing that there is a lion seeking someone to devour.  
		* Remember we aren’t alone.  There are millions of churches throughout the world that are struggling together.  Billions of people are trying to think thoughtfully of our next steps.  We aren’t by ourselves.
		* Remember that this will end, even if we don’t know.  Sometime, this will be over.  Christ, who goes before us and will return for us will make us better.  These words read like the master carpenter about his work.  Resetting foundations (which is part of the idea in establish), restoring, supporting, strengthening.
	* The gospel reminds us that who Christ is, he gives to us.  So the question that remains for all of us moving forward, is how we can during this time keep restoring, supporting, strengthening and establishing each other.  Reach comes home to be with each of us this year.   We are learning the tools of repair of the heart in a difficult time.
