# 5.31.20

* This week, ==I had a chance to participate along== with some other members of Old Stone in a vigil to mark the loss of George Floyd, and to grieve many of the other deaths that happen far too often.
* It was a beautiful, peaceful moment.  I think it was a balm to many people’s souls who have grown weary of this time.  How could you not feel tired.  ==We hear the refrain of Langston Hughes’ poem== reverberating in our hearts - “I am so tired of waiting / Aren’t you / For the world to become good / And beautiful and kind?"
	* And I know there were folks who were proud of what happened in Delaware…
	* and often times it was in reference to what was happening elsewhere.  Indeed, as pictures kept coming in, and reporter live feeds were happening, we were watching eruptions all over the country, and even here in Columbus.  I watched a battle between armored police and protestors - a give and take battle.  I saw people perpetrating violence on each other.  And over time, they happened - ==little fires everywhere.==  This wasn’t the intent of my title earlier this week, but it seems to ring true now.  Multiple cities all over the nation are reeling from unrest and rioting the last few days in response.
	* And it’s interesting to see now where people’s minds have gone.  Not as much to the issues of system racism that has been a part of this country’s history since the beginning, but instead to criticism of those who are protesting.  Even now with new reports that white supremacists groups are joining in protests intentionally to stir up trouble, we witness sentiments that dismiss this issue altogether.  ==Our energies start to move towards denouncing riots over denouncing racism.==
* So on a Pentecost Sunday, where we are confronted with the violent roaring of the Spirit coming upon the believers, I’ve wondered what if the little fires everywhere might be used by the Holy Spirit to remind God’s people about the work of justice.
	* ==This week, the thought of breathing has been close to my heart==.  I’ve thought about what would happen if I couldn’t breathe.  If I wasn’t pinned down, I might be apt to thrash around.  I wouldn’t be worried about I might break or destroy, because I’m trying to get air.
		* ==For many of our brothers and sisters of color==, they living a life where too often they’re only forced to gather only gasps.  
		* When you consider that this current COVID crisis is two times as likely to affect people of color, and on top of that to see three major incidents of violence, you can start to feel choked for air.
		* And so it shouldn’t surprise us that people are fighting back in desperation.  Of course, some of this is again perpetrated by people who only have the intent to cause chaos
		* ==But this picture was striking==.  What person seeking to stoke chaos steals a car seat for a child?  
		* If our sensibilities are more offended by looting than by a world that preferences the success of certain people because of their skin color, then these little fires everywhere may be the Spirit’s reminder for justice.
	* It shouldn’t surprise us that Delaware had no violence whatsoever when we met.
		* ==Two maps that show wealth and race between Franklin County and Delaware County==
		* In our community, we are wealthy and generally homogenous.  We look generally the same, we act generally the same, and generally, we are generally stable financially.
		* We feel “safe” here.  And what isn’t “safe” can be pushed into one census tract in one corner of town.  
		* This is privilege - and privilege on its own isn’t bad.  It allows us to go places and do things others can’t.  We can use or privilege for the benefit of those who are struggling.
		* But when it’s used to take care of ourselves in spite of the other, then it perpetuates systems that only value certain people over others, and we start to invite the air to thin for those who aren’t valued.
		* These little fires everywhere may be the Spirit’s reminder for justice.
* How do we move forward on a Pentecost like this?
	* What would it be like for us to hold our own fires of the Spirit?  To take this time not as something to ignore, but as a call to do the work of justice?
	* ==It means being willing to also do the work of the last half of Hughes’ poem:== “Let us take a knife / And cut the world in two / And see what worms are eating / At the rind”. This isn’t a call to violence, but instead a willingness to tear apart the fabric of the way things are to expose what is destroying us.
	* It may mean ridicule - ==the onlookers first reaction to Pentecost wasn’t shock but derision… clearly they’re drunk.==  When we open up the world to see its brokenness and work for peace and justice, it means removing the worms.  And that’s hard work.
	* But we don’t have to start tomorrow.  This isn’t just something you pick up and do, but requires a whole shift - just how I imagine the fire of Pentecost changed the people in the upper room that day.
		* What if we took time to study, to understand the systemic problems at play?  
		* What if we learned to really listen?  
		* What if we were little fires that prodded at the consciences of others?  
		* What if this time wasn’t just another opportunity to create division with those who are struggling?
	* This next month will be a chance to think through that: ==Thy Kingdom Come Before We’re Done==
	* In July, I’ll lead a book series ==“Anxious To Talk About It”== - and we’ll continue to explore what it means to have good conversations about race and racism.
	* Even next week’s deacon offering is a chance to put the needs of the vulnerable front and center.
	* ==But let the coming weeks be a chance to be prodded==, to reflect, to ask hard questions, to be angry or hurt or not understand.  Call me.  Email me.  Reach out so we can continue conversations.
