# 5/17

**Acts 17:22-31**
17:22 Then Paul stood in front of the Areopagus and said, "Athenians, I see how extremely religious you are in every way.
17:23 For as I went through the city and looked carefully at the objects of your worship, I found among them an altar with the inscription, 'To an unknown god.' What therefore you worship as unknown, this I proclaim to you.
17:24 The God who made the world and everything in it, he who is Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in shrines made by human hands,
17:25 nor is he served by human hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mortals life and breath and all things.
17:26 From one ancestor he made all nations to inhabit the whole earth, and he allotted the times of their existence and the boundaries of the places where they would live,
17:27 so that they would search for God and perhaps grope for him and find him--though indeed he is not far from each one of us.
17:28 For 'In him we live and move and have our being'; as even some of your own poets have said, 'For we too are his offspring.'
17:29 Since we are God's offspring, we ought not to think that the deity is like gold, or silver, or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of mortals.
17:30 While God has overlooked the times of human ignorance, now he commands all people everywhere to repent,
17:31 because he has fixed a day on which he will have the world judged in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead."

**John 14:15-21**
14:15 "If you love me, you will keep my commandments.
14:16 And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Advocate, to be with you forever.
14:17 This is the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him, because he abides with you, and he will be in you.
14:18 "I will not leave you orphaned; I am coming to you.
14:19 In a little while the world will no longer see me, but you will see me; because I live, you also will live.
14:20 On that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
14:21 They who have my commandments and keep them are those who love me; and those who love me will be loved by my Father, and I will love them and reveal myself to them.”

* Exhaustion
	* I imagine now we’re all getting a little tired of this whole COVID thing.  We’re talking 9 weeks+ now.
	* Other folks are tired, too.  The stories of folks at bars, the celebrations, the reprisals.  
	* I’ve heard some of the kindest and most unkind things said to people and towards me in the last few weeks.  I’ve done more of that than I’d like to admit, too.  This is hard on everyone.  We struggle with grace to each other, and ourselves.
	* It's a particular type of exhaustion, isn’t it?  One that doesn’t feel like it has an end.  When we feel that, how do we persevere?  How do we go on in an unknown future?
* Setting the Scene with Paul
	* Paul has his own exhaustion, too.  He had been tasked with this amazing responsibility of growing the church.  Overwhelming, unexpected.
	* And here is in Athens.  A center of activity.  And he’s distressed, although the word there is far more than distressed.  He’s angry, he’s annoyed, not exactly in the best mood.  Find your strongest word for an annoyed anger, and that’s what the Greek is trying to convey here.  If it were modern times, he’d be taking it to a Facebook page and arguing with everyone.
	* But he has a change of heart it seems.  He goes from arguing to telling the gospel.
	* He spoke hope in the unknown.  The things around him shifted to tell a new story.  It wasn’t one of frustrations of a lack of understanding, but a joy of people reaching for something in the dark, something more than just what they can see.  Everyone’s exhaustion might have something more than its frustration.  An unknown god could be the Savior. And it opens up a new way of grace.
* There’s hope in the unknown
	* One of the hardest things is in the midst of a lot of frustration and disorder that there’s something to hope in - or that hope lives in something intangible.  
	* But, like Paul, we can move the story a little.  The things that are unknowns might reveal God in ways we and others can’t always recognize.
	* We can be many Paul’s amidst our varying Athens.
	* It’s taking to heart what Jesus said: I will not leave you orphaned; I am coming to you.  The risen one comes back.  The circumstances change, but Christ does not.  
	* And we have a guide along with us - the Spirit speaks for us.  We don’t have to form this story on our own.
	* We know Jesus is ahead in our story, and we know we don’t have to carry this alone.  Our exhaustion and fear might open up to hope - even a little.
* So how?
	* It’s all the pictures I’m going to show in a row
	* That’s just Facebook.  It’s not all the little ways you’re turning moments of the unknown into hope.
