# 7.26.20

The Botanical Kingdom

* Over the last week, I’ve had to contend with some terrible accusations that have surfaced about an organization I love dearly.
* Many of them have to deal with issues of racial injustice against staff of color.
* It also has brought up in many sad ways a culture that was completely toxic for many others.
* I think for many of us - whether it’s an institution, or just life, we’re starting to feel a new series of pains that come from this time.
	* We still live in a lot of uncertainty
	* We still are grieving the loss of ways that we would be
	* And we’re also fatigued from having to make decisions, live, and lead in extended crisis.
	* I find myself, as I had said a few weeks ago, more tender and worn through than I’d like to be.  I am reduced.  You’re reduced.  We’re all reduced together.
	* And we all respond in different ways, requiring more grace towards each other.
	* It’s hard then not to at times to feel even with good people that there isn’t a toxicity that sticks around us.  A broken world inevitably has its toxic moments.
* One of my friends, as we were discussing the issues that have situation that we were witness, said to me that “Change is botanical"
	* I found that an interesting turn of phrase.  Change is botanical.
	* In our gospel today, however, we see how that’s the case.
	* There are a lot of parables here, but I want to focus on the mustard seed.
* Botanical Kingdom
	* This is not the same passage as the mustard seed faith.
	* " The precise species cannot be determined, and some may grow to a height of three or more meters"
	* However, we read all these varying stages of this plant.
		* It is a seed.  Not just any seed, but a small seed.  On its own insignificant.  Minute.  
		* It then is cast into the field.  We’ve talked about fields a lot the last few weeks in these parables, and so we can imagine that this is good soil, and well tended.  It’s the type of seed that the Word of the Kingdom can thrive in.
		* It then grows to massive height and becomes a safe harbor for other animals.
	* This reminds us that God’s Kingdom on earth is not linear or mechanical, but organic and botanical.
* What does it mean to live in the botanical kingdom?
	* Even the smallest moment is worth celebrating.  The smallest seed, the most insignificant moment can become something huge for the kingdom.  This is especially important during a time like this.  When we miss what we had and we struggle to see good in this time.  It’s surrounding us but sometimes hard to see because our eyes aren’t easily trained on something small.
	* It means that even in a fallow season, we work and prepare the fields, becuase we don’t know what could be sown into the field.  I’ve had folks say to me during this time they’re reading their Bibles more.  People are praying more.  And it might be because we’ve had to become fallow.
	* It means the growth is organic, but heads towards goodness.  Just as a plant reaches towards the sun as it grows, so the Kingdom spreads towards what is life giving, but it doesn’t always mean it’s direct.  Sometimes, it means the plant has to twist or split off.  It may mean moving into to shadow to head into the light.  But it is headed there.  Broken moments now are headed towards restoration.  Toxic culture can be healed.  Our own exhaustion can find restoration.  But it still may mean some bending in order to get there.
	* It means that Kingdom as it grows should be a safe harbor for those seeking rest.  This can be hard.  It requires the hard work of growth, but it hopefully moves towards that end.  
* It may mean we have to carry multiple roles that aren’t always comfortable.
* We may not see the growth right now; things really are fallow.  Or, even worse, they just seem barred.  We may barely see the small seeds right now, but take heart.  The Kingdom is coming, and it will grow.
