---
date: 2022-01-02
lectionary: year c
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 1]]"
title: 
tags:
  - "#COVID"
  - "#Advent"
---

# 01.02.22

* We welcome this new year with a bit of trepidation.
	* Cases are as bad as they've ever been in Duval County, rivaling the summer wave
	* But what took a month to achieve, this current wave took only a week.
	* So, we're likely going be buckling-up, and getting ready for the worst case wave yet of COVID.
* And I'm feeling it this time around - maybe you are too
	* There's times when I feel like this should all be over by now.  Haven't we done enough?  People been hurt and sick enough?
	* It's hard to invite folks not to participate in person - what other sets of organizations built on community tell themselves that it's best to invite people _not_ to participate fully?
	* And this week marks a couple dual anniversaries - for me personally, it's a year since the staff here had COVID (I'm still not 100%), and a year since the storming of the capital.
	* All this to say I don't feel the same excitement coming into today.  It's always an interesting question... when we all come here, can we bring our off-days?  Can clergy be worn down in the pulpit? 
	* If I'm perfectly honest, this is the kind of day I don't sense God as much as I'd like.
* This may be why John 1:18 was so striking the last couple weeks.
	* This isn't some sort of accidental translation error.
	* It's also not a verse, in the midst of big, beautiful John 1 we think about much, especially because it's a tapestry text for the church - we hear it a lot, and it settles on the walls of our hearts.
	* Right there, in writing - no one has ever seen God.  We witness God through Jesus... but that's it.
	* So, I think from the outset, we can acknowledge that if you're not sensing God, it's no surprise, because it's not something that people can do.
* Yet still, John develops this beautiful prologue about Jesus, Logos, with God throughout all time.  You could almost entirely distill the entire gospel down to just these 18 verses.
	* But it isn't all sunshine and rainbows - we hear about darkness vs. light, a lack of acceptance... but in the end, the good prevails.  AND, even in this midst of moments that seem lost, the end is grace - and grace upon grace.
	* This is the story we hear in Jeremiah
		* The end sounds beautiful - a banquet and bounty as people are gathered.
			* To be gathered, you had to have been scattered.
			* It wasn't all that great for the Israelites.  And I wonder in the midst of the scattering, did people see God?
			* But they were brought back, consoled, and healed.
	* So even in the midst of not seeing God, there's some knowledge of resolve - of a happy ending.  That knowledge is what keeps people moving through motions.
* So what do we all do?
	* In these week-in-week-outs, one-offs should just be one-offs.
		* No one goes to hell based on a week of not being sure.
		* No one goes to hell because they say out loud they're not so sure about God.
		* In fact, if we take John seriously, we might be fooling ourselves if we think we see God the Father.
		* So yeah, if you have a lousy week or your burdened by the news and it all seems a little dark, you can feel safe to just acknowledge it.
	* But, over time, when it's time for a reboot, it may be looking for lights in darkness that, however dimly for us at any time, show us Jesus still at work in this world.
		* What if we all just went through the motions?  We just said "yknow, I don't feel like it, but I'm going to love God as much as I can offer and my neighbor as myself."
		* Those motions become sparks of light for others.  And in the darkest pitch black moments, even the dimmest, briefest spark is noticeable. 
		* And lots of little dim sparks become greater and greater light. 
		* As as the dim lights become brighter, maybe we see a happy ending down the road.  Maybe we see being gathered, and it's not just an abstract knowledge but something to mark.
