---
date: 2022-01-16
lectionary: year c
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/John/John 2]]"
tags:
  - "#abundance"
---

SO WHAT: Our God is a God that does not know when to quit when it comes to abundance.  It shapes our view of mission.

If you remember a couple weeks ago, I had noted that John declares in the prologue that no one has seen God.  It was a reminder that at times God can feel inaccessible.  However, John continues and says it is through Jesus that God is made known.
In the next few weeks, we're going to focus on learning about God's character through Jesus as it's revealed to us during this season.

* This doesn't seem to be a typical entry story into what will be a world-changing ministry.
	* It's a typical wedding feast - seven days of celebration
	* In Cana, which is about 4 miles northeast of Nazareth. It's not necessarily known for much, and this is the only time it's mention in the text.
	* And what's interesting too is that the wedding itself is non-descript.  We don't know the names of the of the bride and groom.  All we know is that Jesus' mother, Jesus, and the disciples were invited to be a part of it.  This is the everyday, non-dramatic milestones of human living.
* Jesus miracles begin with a benign acknowledgment of scarcity - they have no wine.
	* This is such a fascinating, matter-of-fact conversation between Mary and Jesus
	* It means nothing to Jesus, really, as it indicates in the text.  And really, in the grand scheme of things, this seems like such a small thing.
	* Except to the ones that are being married.  And apparently, far as we can tell, this minor crisis is happening without any of their knowledge.
	* And Mary never once wavers in her certainty that something will be done about this. 
* The actual miracle itself seems pretty benign as well - we have the luxury of seeing death overcome and what Jesus is going to do.  But here, it's just some stone jars.
	* Jesus has everything that's there filled to the brim. 
	* There isn't any sense of calculation, or what was enough.  It just occurs
	* At what does occur is to the delight of everyone.
		* That chief steward comment doesn't seem like one of disappointment or of judgment.
		* Instead, it's one of joyful surprise.  The conventions of hospitality are reworked for something more better than expected.
		* And do you notice who gets the credit?  The groom.
		* The knock-on effect was for the disciples to see that Jesus is something special.
* Our gospel passage today is a "break glass in case of emergency" type of passage
	* This is the God we know, and who loves us.
	* In the moments of scarcity, it can be simple acknowledgement of need, even in what seems most mundane.
	* And when God responds
		* God lavishes us with the best
		* God provides more than we need
		* God offers more than we could ask for.
		* And does it in richness.
* This is a way for us to think about our work in ministry.
	* The Story of Bill Strickland and Manchester-Bidwell Corporation
	* Providing fresh flowers for his boys he cared for all the time.
	* MLK - was advocating for everyone to receiving God's abundance no matter their creed, color, or background.
	* As a church, as individuals, what is it like to offer in equal measure to everyone?  How does everyone get the best wines at what seem like the times when we offer the dregs?
