---
date: 2022-01-23
lectionary: year c
bible: "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 4]]"
tags:
  - "#justice"
  - "#gofundme"
  - "#fred-craddock"
---
---

SO WHAT: We have to set our hearts on what it means for us to benefit tangentially by the gospel.

* We love feel good stories...
	* There was a stories a few years about about a third grader named Cayden, who noticed that friends around him didn't have enough money for their lunches and had to put them down, so he started a campaign to ensure that all his classmates to eat a hot meal at school.
	* There was another boy named Ryan who did the same thing in 2019!
	* And of course, we hear pretty often about someone who is in dire straits because of a newly discovered medical issue, and a friend sets up a GoFundMe page, and people pour their hearts (and wallets out) for others.
* ...but if we stop at the feel good story, we miss the bigger issue:
	* The Education Data initative:
		* Public school meal debt: $262million
		* 1.54 million children in the US can't afford school meals
			* Over 170,000 in Florida alone
			* The average debt per student? $168.56
	* JAMA 2018
		* Found that 26% of the over 1 million fundraisers were related to health-related costs.
		* Seeking $10.3b, raised about $3.7b (36% raised)
		* Studies don't know what happens to those folks who don't raise it all.
	* This isn't to devalue the beautiful gifts of these children concerned about their friends, or how we give to others. 
	* Instead, I think it shows our desires to see good, even if it is at times at the expense of the more difficult issues that the good brings up.
* LUKE
	* You'll hear the whole text at the installation this afternoon.  The responses after this section cast their long shadow over this section.  But let's try to approach this on its own merits.
	* It's interesting how Luke treats this text in comparison to Mark and Luke... Fred Craddock: "Luke places the Nazareth visit because it is first, no chronologically but programatically.  That is to say that this event announces who Jesus is, of what his ministry consists, what his church will be and do, and what will be the response to both Jesus and the church."
	* He has, in Luke's telling, been fresh off of both receiving the Holy Spirit and being tested in the wilderness.
	* He is doing something rather ordinary both in his heading to the synagogue and his reading of Isa 61:1-2.
	* If we were to end of v20, this would sound like a liturgist reciting a text.
	* And this sounds lovely!  It would be one of the feel-good stories of our time.
		* Jesus as a Cayden, or a GoFundMe manager
		* Nice job, Jesus!
	* But everything changes on two words, it seems: today and fulfilled.
		* Today - at this moment, no precursor, no heads up... here and now at this moment.
		* Fulfilled - be contractually satisfied. 
* Today fulfilled
	* Today fulfilled means that we've shifted from feel-good story to an acknowledgement of social realities that will be attended to.
	* Jesus becomes very clear on the direction of the mission of the Trinity in this world:
		* It is oriented to the marginalized - poor, oppressed, on the margins of society.  In proclaiming the year of Jubilee, Jesus is arguing that all the systems that caused these folks to be on the margins will be turned on its head.
		* It's not geographically centered - there is no selection of a specific group, but it is for all (more realized next week)
		* And it demands a response - in hearing "today fulfilled," we must stand up and take notice even now. 
			* This may be even more difficult when we may not hear ourselves in these texts. 
			* If we're not particularly marginalized, nor poor, nor imprisoned, we might be apt to ignore it - or be tempted to overspiritualize it, which might lead us to placing these radical statements into a banal safe, securing our emotional safety, perhaps, but leading to a grayscale, under-interrogated existence.  We will always hear about Caydens, Ryans, and GoFundMe, good stories all amen and amen.
* But what if we didn't?
	* Does Cayden's work lose its feel-goodness if we acknowledge the brokenness of a system that debits families who can afford food at a place their children are compelled to be?
	* Does the gift of the person to a GoFundMe page lose its worth when we recognize that we continue to have a healthcare system that is one of the single largest causes of bankruptcy in this country?
	* To the contrary, I think those stories take on greater color and life - they're Christ's continued work in this world.  They prod us towards greater missions for our own lives.
	* What if at the end of all of our mission statements, SJPC said "but really, we're here to bring good news to the poor?" What if every single dollar in our budget reflected release of the captives?  That each benediction ended with going to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor?  ESPECIALLY if those are not the folks in our pews?  Would it cause riot, or would it bring resurrection?  What if we tried and found out?
