---
date: 2022-02-06
lectionary: year c
bible:
  - "[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 5]]"
title: Sweetest Fish
tags:
  - "#decisions"
  - "#TS-Eliot"
  - "#Prufrock"
  - "#discipleship"
  - "#sin"
  - "#grace"
  - "#congregational-meet"
---

* Have you ever thought about all the decisions you've made to get to where you are today? 
	* It's estimated that the average adult makes 35,000 remotely conscious decisions each day.
	* That's compared to 3,000 for children.
	* That includes nearly 227 decisions just on food alone.
	* Those millions of decisions, no matter how minute or significant, shape us.
* When we reflect, we probably think of our best decisions, and our worst... and it seems like we can perseverate with the latter over the former.
	* TS Eliot in "Prufrock": Time for you and me, / And time yet for a hundred indecisions, / And for a hundred visions and revisions, / Before the taking of toast and tea.
	* This is also a problem that often we as people who have spent our lives in church wrestle with - we hear about sinfulness all the time.  We confess weekly.  Remember growing up fearful of going to hell because I might have backtalked or something - not my parents fault, but at some point, the perspective gets into your heart.
	* But there's also a tendency to believe that every decision that we've made has been the right one - almost as if we've made our own luck, and haven't been bound by the effects of all those 35k decisions.  Or - we might think that God has granted us a specific gift: the quiet prosperity gospel.
* The text unfolds how this happen!
	* Look at all the decisions even in this small story that the disciples have done:
		* They were willing to be supportive of Jesus and his apparently successful teaching:
			* They let this teacher onto their boat in the first place
			* They listened to him when they asked him to set the boat off the shore.
		* They were willing to listen to a carpenter about the work of a fisherman
			* I can imagine exhaustion in Simon's voice.  They're tired from working hard.  Decisions that have not worked they way they had planned. 
			* Was he humoring Jesus?  Oh, yeah, I guess man - you're on our boat teaching, I guess we'll try it your way.
	* And yet, so many fish are caught it nearly sinks the boats.
	* The response?
		* "Go away from the Lord for I am a sinful man" - he literally begs, on his knees, to get away.
		* And it's also fascinating to see how Jesus reply to his begging - that is a response to fear! 
			* Not, no you're not a sinful person
			* Not, nevermind I'll make the fish disappear
			* But, instead, it was an acknowledgment that though yes, he may be a broken person, he's chosen by Jesus to be a disciple.  The sum of his life's decisions do not foreclose him from the call of Jesus Christ.
		* Additionally, it's also not just "take these gifts, go sell the fish, make lots of money and relax and when someone asks you about this success give me a shout out later". It's instead that this miracle demands a life-altering response - to drop the nets and follow.
			* Again, plenty of choices could be made here, but the one chose was action.
* I can't help but see so many parallels to this story and our current situation here at SJPC, and a perfect sermon for our congregational meeting Sunday.
	* In another few minutes in the congregational meeting, I'll be able to report that right now, we have a balanced budget going into 2022 with no cuts to the programs that the Session and its committees had dreamed of back in August as we wanted to get our feet on the ground.
	* That was after multiple years of massive deficits that led to the decision to have to sell our property.
	* We, as a church for many years sat in the night with our nets out, only to report that we believe we had caught nothing.
	* But, of course, Jesus was with us, teaching us and all those around us.
	* And now, we're in a moment in 2022 where the nets are starting to look pretty full.
	* The question is - what do we do now?
		* Do we ask God to flee because of our brokenness? 
			* Do we find the moment so unbelievable that we're ready to sit in our brokenness and let the nets go?
			* Perhaps we could find comfort in empty nets because it was our routines, our efforts, and quietly starving on our own volition is less frightful than Jesus performing miracles?
			* Those are the parking lot conversations, the "too good to be true" comments.
		* Do we believe this was really of our own doing?
			* Do we give into the temptation that it had nothing to do with Jesus performing miracles, but we hold ourselves responsible? 
			* That we had really just been one Prayer of Jabez away from this moment, and we will give Jesus a shoutout at the awards ceremony later?
		* Or, do we recognize that all these miracles are, are reminders to let go and follow?
			* That now, it's time to drop what we're holding and start the work of ministry?
			* That now, yes, we acknowledge our sin but aren't bound by it's intertia and comfort, but trust that we're called?  Just like Isaiah did?  Just like Paul did?  This seems to be a pattern in Scripture.
			* Yes, we're shaped by our decisions, but there's 35k more ahead each day.  When we can, let's see the miracle Jesus is performing in our midst, and chose to follow him.
