---
date:
  - 2022-02-13
lectionary: year c
bible: 
title: 
tags:
---
# 02.13.22

* WIll forewarn: every once in awhile a sermon doesn't get all the way formed - it's an ellipses that I hope leads to discussion. 
* As Christianity continues to be reformed, I'm struck by the role of individualism in our faith.
* As I see it, there are two sides of a similar coin:
	* The "Jesus came to save just me"
		* as if there's some Spirit Team 6 whose job it is in heaven is to make sure all the world lines up that you make a personal decision of faith, and then that's it.  They celebrate in heaven, and you call it a day.
		* This has always struck me as a uniquely American brand of Xity - a rugged individualism.
		* This also had a hayday over the last century as we as people were being atomized more... industrial revolution leading to less of a community, more of a emphasis on smaller and smaller denominations of community.
	* The "Spiritual but not religious crowd"
		* There's a difference between "I don't want to be associated with a specific of religion"... not thinking about that
		* Instead, I'm thinking about the "I don’t worship anywhere, and I’m kind of proud of that because it implies that I’m a freethinker. I’m not spoon-fed dogma, and I don’t look down on other people who are different from me. Except, of course, people of faith who actually try to practice it in community."
		* Linda Mercandante, PCUSA professor at MTSO in Delaware, argued for some distinct categories:
			* Some like dissenters are actively working against religion
			* Some are seekers, or immigrants where they are claiming or reclaiming religious identity.
		* But, still, it's defined by this same atomistic individualization, except perhaps one for our modern technological era: not built on institutions or structure, but instead on narrative.
* This all matters because I'm not sure how either viewpoint attends to this gospel today.
	* This begins Jesus' sermon on the plain - the Trinity on a level playing field with both disciples and other gathered (this week and next week)
	* That emphasis on a level plain ought to invite us to consider a world redone by God - what's the Kingdom look like?  What's being revealed to us still in this season of Epiphany?
	* It leads off with the community needing healing - which is fascinating to me: teaching comes out of communal need and communal restoration - touch, no less: a physical enacting of communal presence.
	* 4 blessings, 4 woes: aligned with each other
		* Poor - Rich
		* Hungry - Full
		* Weeping - Laughing
		* Rejected - Accepted
	* If all that the experience of faith is boils down to individualistic, atomistic being, then are the blessing and woes just descriptions?
		* If you're poor, hungry, weeping, or rejected, sorry - it'll get better!
		* If you're rich, full, laughing, accepted, sorry - it'll get worse!
		* That's probably the easy out for a sermon.
	* Jer in part doesn't make that so easy:
		* If we trust in only ourselves, only what we offer, we will fail oursleves
		* Our hearts are "devious" and "perverse" - better, incurably deceptive.
		* Hyperindividualism on either side of the coin will ultimately deceive us.
	* So perhaps, the gospel is not description, but means to overcome our own deception!
* What's the alternative?
	* Why does Jesus start all this in the first place?  Why does he "then look up... and say?"
		* The community of need in his midst.
		* Iato Pantas: "he healed all of them"
		* Any path of spirituality that does not lead to healing touch within community is deceptive from our own hearts.
		* The telos - the raison d'etre, ultimate goal - has to be that: iaomai pantas, otherwise, it's just self-decpetion.
			* Should we approach the right telos of  iaomai pantas, the blessings in the future come nearer, the woes are diminished.
			* Otherwise, it's self-absorption which rarely anyone but the rich, full, laughing, and accepted have the luxury of, so yes, know that someday, it'll get better dear ones, and live it up while you can.
* I'm not sure that the Christian life lived to its fullest can escape this telos, because it's the end that Jesus himself reveals and achieves, so the question that should remain with us is what we really want?
