# 02.27.22

* We're at the end of Epiphanytide this year - starting with Epiphany and Christ's Baptism, and now here.
* We bookend with these moments where God comes and illuminates.
* They're a little wild - and, so is the Exodus passage for that matter.
* This is one of those many places where we can get tripped up amongst friends who might not value this text the same way
	* Can you really believe something like this happened?
	* It just sounds like a fantasy!
	* It starts to shake the rest of the text then somehow.
* Let's run a little experiment with each other this morning:
	* Start thinking about yourself.
	* How do you start to define yourself?  If we were sitting for a cup of coffee today, meeting for the first time how would you start to tell me who you are?
		* Maybe you'd tell me about your family
		* Probably some of the highlights of your life
		* But it'd all go toward story.
	* Maybe some of you - although I doubt it - would begin by telling me your height, your weight, your checking account balance.
	* Because while they are descriptors, they do not completely define us.
	* What defines us are the deep, the surreal, the amazing.
* There is, of course, a genre that helps define this - magical realism.
	* Response out of both Romanticism (made everything seem grander than want it was, even if it looks real), and Realism (stopped trying to glamorize everything)
	* German art critic Franz Roh uses this term magical realism to "emphasize how magical, fantastic, and strange normal objects can appear in the real world when you stop and look at them."
	* There are often 5 characteristics of magical realism:
		* Realistic setting. All magical realism novels take place in a setting in this world that’s familiar to the reader. 
		* Magical elements. From talking objects to dead characters to telepathy, every magical realism story has fantastical elements that do not occur in our world. However, they’re presented as normal within the novel. 
		* Limited information. Magical realism authors deliberately leave the magic in their stories unexplained in order to normalize it as much as possible and reinforce that it is part of everyday life. 
		* Critique. Authors often use magical realism to offer an implicit critique of society, most notably politics and the elite. The genre grew in popularity in parts of the world like Latin America that were economically oppressed and exploited by Western countries. Magic realist writers used the genre to express their distaste and critique American Imperialism. 
		* Unique plot structure. Magical realism does not follow a [typical narrative arc](https://www.masterclass.com/articles/what-are-the-elements-of-a-narrative-arc-and-how-do-you-create-one-in-writing) with a clear beginning, middle, and end like other literary genres. This makes for a more intense reading experience, as the reader does not know when the plot will advance or when the conflict will take place.
	* Let's attend to the text, then:
		* On a mountain
		* With bright white and ghosts, and all the response is, is - let's get some tents together so we can hang out.
		* We don't why know it's happening, there's no explanation of why God's voice comes out, or why Moses and Elijah are there.
		* And it just stops.
		* 4/5 in the Transfiguration, we see this magical realism
		* and Critique?  The second part attached to Transfiguration
			* A day later, after this magical moment happens, the disciples can do nothing.
			* And Jesus provides this critique - don't y'all get it by now?  Don't you see how things are different?
* We we leave Epiphany, this is question we should rest upon.
	* For weeks, Jesus has offered us a new way of seeing the world defined:
		* Of greater abundance
		* Of everyone being invited to work towards God's Commonwealth
		* Of inviting the folks out on the margins in
		* Of proclaiming the year of the Lord's favor
	* And now, Jesus is shining brightly and God's saying LISTEN TO HIM
	* Instead of dismissing it as some modernist, positivist failing of the text, perhaps we ought to see it as a final challenge for us to consider if the way we look and work in the world is sufficient.
		* This can flow out to so much - our prayers, our hymnody, our font, our table.
		* But perhaps more than anything, it's a question posed here today - do you think Jesus is real?  Do you think that Jesus can really be redemptive and heal?  Is Jesus' new way of looking at the world worth considering?
			* If so, then maybe this little bit of magic has done its job
			* If not, then we can understand a little bit of Jesus' frustration.
	* Let's say that we all say today that yes, we are going to believe that this is real, but now how?
		* This is where Lent comes in, and how we'll explore it.
		* On Wednesday, I'm going to say the following: **_I invite you, therefore, in the name of Christ, to observe a holy Lent by self-examination and penitence, by prayer and fasting, by works of love, and by meditating on God’s word._**
		* If we think that this Epiphany story is real, and that the world is being redone, then perhaps we can afford a few weeks of training before we set out on the task.
