# 02.20.22

* This passage is scary.
	* At the first glance, especially with the story of Joseph with his brothers, it’s a reminder that we cannot resort to retaliation when we have been victimized.  Jospeh embodies grace, forgiveness, and love to those who had harmed him the most.
	* However, passages like this are also scary because perhaps more  than many, it has been used to diminish and excuse abuse.  By saying that we should pray for those who abuse us, and turn the other cheek, it can feel like a permission of sorts - that so long as one is brave, they can withstand another attack.
		* This kind of trauma persists to this day.
		* And, again, as I’ve said before, if this has been used with you, I’m sorry.  It’s not okay.  And, when moments like this arise, I want to say that if you are in an abusive situation and need help, SJPC is available and will do whatever we can to help you out of the situation you’re in.
	* How do we harmonize this passage without neglecting both realities?
* In God’s Commonwealth:
	* There is no room for victimizers
		* The silence in this passage on what a victimizer must do should be taken as a clear indication that in Jesus’ world on the level ground, there is no place for people who would do violence to another, especially as a means to have power over someone else.
		* This would go against the very core of why Jesus came (cf Lk 4) - why would he claim to proclaim release and sight if only to have it imprison and blind another?
		* When we find victimizers in our midst, we must do all we can to end it, but not as victimizers ourselves
			* This is one of the most difficult positions many of us can be placed in.
			* Hodges Pres, Boulevard - we sit in positions where we want justice, but pray for reconciliation and redemption, even if that seems far flung.
			* But short of true, serious, and complete redemption, it should be our call to protect victims.
			* Our failure to do can perpetuate that violence as one believes there is no other option.
			* This goes beyond just physical abuse - it’s spiritual, it’s economic, it’s all encompassing
	* No one must remain a victim (or become one)
		* Instead of seeing these passages as an excuse to be attacked again (especially if we are diligent in the first point), then instead, this a chance to be empowered.
		* Three of the keystones of a trauma informed approach to care include Collaboration and Mutuality, along with Empowerment, Voice, and Choice, and Safety
			* It means being able to turn the other cheek by choice, knowing that there is support around that person
			* It means being able to give your coat up because you know others will give theirs up, too.
			* Jesus’ call is for all, and it means that, again, we find ourselves on the plain together.
			* And knowing that this is true provides a safer place to thrive and flourish
		* But it’s also not to become a victim
			* During the riots of 2020 in Minnesota, was struck by this photo.
				* In a sermon, I mentioned that it seemed strange that someone was looking to cause chaos would feel the need to steal a car seat.
				* I was surprised by many responses who almost seemed offended by the thought that there could be grace given, even while acknowledging that looting wasn’t the best of all options.
				* It was often instant moves to criminalizing someone, creating monsters.
				* But who was the victim there?  Who needed retribution for the sins against the Kingdom of Capitalism?
				* There is, sadly, enough injustice in the world that it will come to us, and we need not create it on our own.
	* And there is still healing for all
		* Last week, Jesus started this by healing everyone.
		* He goes further this week by pushing us to see how can happen.
		* In spite of a fearful message - more in its application than its thesis - we can see a better world, people redeemed and reconciled.
