# 03.06.22

* Prefatory
	* One of the lines in how we as Christians think differently comes down to how we view the response to what Jesus' ministry is about
		* There's a train of thought that argues that it is mostly communal
		* Then there's another that argues that it's predominately personal
	* We as mainliners tend to position ourselves on the former, at times at the expense of the latter.
	* However, Lent gives us an ideal moment to think through how what God is doing in this world - and what was revealed to us in Epiphany - affects us as individuals.  How are we changed?
	* But, it's always against the backdrop of our previous season: its end is not just for us.
* Self-Reflection
	* Who are you?
		* That seems like a silly question, but when we start to pick it apart, it gets more and more complex
		* Remember last  we talked about what you'd say if we were sitting together for the first time?
			* Let's build out on that more - you're lot of those things
			* But you are also some of those descriptors too - your height, weight, age
			* You also have other roles you play - some given to you, some claimed.
			* At some point, we can feel buried by all of this, as there's conflict even without our own self... things win out at expense of others (father vs. pastor, for instance)
		* If Lent is a chance is a time to strip things away that weigh us down - the whole "give something up" - are there parts of us, if given the option, we'd be glad to jettison for a time?
		* What's at the bottom of all we are?
	* To understand that takes some self-reflection
* The Gospel
	* When we see Jesus here again this year, we see him in a moment in the wilderness.
		* Wildnerness is often a place for supernatural wrestling
		* It's also one of the most thin spaces between humanity and the divine - even if it's not immediately accessible or understood.
			* The people of Israel and their wanderings often lost God for the desire for an oppressive past
			* Elijah couldn't find God at first in fire and storm, but in the silence
			* God didn't always show much immediately, but God did show up in more concrete ways in the wilderness.
	* He is having to take stock in who he is
		* I wonder if the devil is a character outside of Jesus, or if it's in Jesus.
			* Certainly, each of of us have moments when we hear a voice - a part of what we see of us, challenging us
			* And these aren't bad things!
				* Sustenance
				* Cultural Power
				* Supernatural Power
				* Who wouldn't want these things, especially if we just had to wave a hand?
					* And certainly, while we don't have that kind of mystical power, we make these decisions all the time
					* People choose to work stone to bread
					* Are willing to go to the ends of the earth to receive power
					* Try to bend the will of nature for their own ends.
			* But Jesus doesn't do it.  Why?
				* Let's remind ourselves of the backstory here
					* Luke 2 41-52: Jesus' parents can't find him, and he's hanging out at temple, being all wise.
					* John the Baptist is telling people someone is coming
					* Lk 3 21-22: Jesus is baptized, and God says "_you_ are my Son, the Beloved; with _you_ I am well pleased."
					* Then, immediately after, we get a genealogy from Adam to Jesus.
				* Luke might be trying to tell us something, then.
					* That from the youngest of ages, Jesus found something deep in the stories of God's faithfulness
					* That Jesus also heard from God that _he_ was loved, that _he_ was pleasing to God.
					* He had also done the work in times outside of the wilderness - in baptism and study.
					* And, finally, that he was part of something that had been happening for generations.
	* When the moment of being in the wilderness happened, and everything else was stripped away, he found the core of his self.
		* These responses aren't just glib quick one-offs from VBS memory verses - these are convictions.
		* And certainly, if this is within Jesus himself, it's a moment to let go of roles and identities that might have seemed attractive, but weren't truly him or what he was called to be.
		* And, at least in Luke's telling, I want to argue this as a more compelling way to look at the text, simply because as opposed to Mark's telling, there are no supernatural angels to attend to him. 
* There are lots of ways that people who do this kind of help for a living will offer you to navigate self-reflection, figuring out who you are, and what you need to let go, but perhaps one in light of this year's Lenten journey, I might offer this:
	* Realize that we are in a wilderness.
		* This is multi-layered
			* COVID
			* Ukraine
			* Inflation
			* The church's transition
		* And our first move to be to recognize that the wilderness is still the thin space it's always been.
		* God is here, God can show up concretely, but it may be in ways we don't always expect.
	* Consider the good stories that seem to go back as far as time.
		* Can you remember a time so captivated by understanding God and listening that it made you lose track of the time or everything else?
		* This doesn't necessarily mean a "mountaintop" experience which can be so fleeting.  Jesus instead was deep in engagement.
		* There may be something that resonates with you there.
	* Where are the times out of your baptism - your connectedness with God and the people of God - you hear God's voice saying God loves _you,_ and God is pleased with _you_?
		* Where do you sense God's warmth?
		* When are times you want to hear God saying "You are my beloved, with you I'm well pleased."
		* Is it in service?  Loving others?
	* The intersection of those things is probably the core of who you are called to be.
	* Everything else then might need stripped away, or at least pruned.
	* And when the devil offers other things - when the other roles are there, we can respond in the wilderness.
