---
tags: ["#Year-C","#Luke-19:28-40"]
---
[[_Resources/Bible/MSG/Luke/Luke 19]]
# 04.10.22: Palm Sunday

* Going to Disney has with it a high degree of people watching. 
* It's especially fun to see how people are creative in their clothing. 
* Maybe it's artistic expression, or it's practical for keeping track of folks, but many folks had matching family shirts
* I ended up seeing more than a few of these: Most Expensive Day Ever!
* And honestly, this kind of cynicism is how I began the trip. 
	* Kept asking about paying this and paying that
	* Subpar food at the cost of a good restaurant in town.
	* And I just couldn't shake the feeling of being forced as part of an experience to consume. 
* This stayed with me in some degree until first night in the park at Magic Kingdom
	* There, after a day of almost continuous heavy rains, we watched the fireworks, as well as all of these characters in movies that I watched growing up, as well as those that I've watched with the kids.
	* And over those few minutes, it seemed like all my cynicism gave way to memories and stories
		* Lots of those characters explored what it means to be a hero and a villain, to overcome adversity, and to see the heart of someone through other things that might keep us away
		* Was it true that it was still expensive and a money pit?  Sure.  But that wasn't _all_ it was.
		* Over the next couple days, then, it actually seemed a bit more magical to me.  Star Wars area felt in part like I was somewhere else, and I loved when a receipt was a cargo credit.  I was seeing things through my kids eyes as well as my own.
		* When we left, I reflected on the question of those t-shirts.  What if that was all I took away from the experience...
			* Either internally, and all I saw was the worst that Disney is... or,
			* Just externally - I put on some bravado, and didn't actually acknowledge that I too had caught some of the Disney magic (interesting how it was mostly men who wore the "most expensive day ever" shirt...)
* Holy week, and Palm Sunday, aren't a whole lot different than standing at the threshold of Disney.
	* We're presented with this crazy story of Jesus headed into Jerusalem, and he knew what was coming.
	* It's sheer celebration from end to end - and even if the people wouldn't stop celebrating, nature itself would.
	* And you wouldn't be crazy to think my word, what is up with this guy? 
	* Then of course, it gets a little more odd - we spend an evening washing one another's hands or feet, and then we witness the shame on the cross.
	* Finally, next week, we're going to celebrate Jesus' resurrection, which is probably the most wild thing of all.
	* And there are all sorts of reasons on the outside of this week to be cynical.
	* Plenty of times that we might go through this week and next like the dad with the shirt on - too expensive in time, in energy, in obligation. 
* But, what if we saw the magic?
	* Of humility
	* Of love and grace
	* Of a safe place to grieve
	* Of life overcoming death?
	* Because these stories tell us something beautiful
	* And they connect us to the things that we aspire to as well.
	* In the end, that's what all those weeks of stripping away things during Lent prepares us for - to see the beauty in this week
	* It doesn't mean that there aren't still things that aren't great about the church and living faithfully, nor that there aren't things that are truly hard to pin down.  But when did the magic of the moment ever depend on explanation over experience?
* So try it this week.  Celebrate this week.
	* Wave your palms!  Go watch the kids explore!
	* Be overwhelmed by love and grace.
	* Feel anguish and sorrow
	* And witness true victory
	* Don't allow the cynicism to hold you internally, but also externally. 
	* Because there is true magic right there, if we're willing to celebrate it.
