# 09.25.22

* Reading this text from beginning to end reads like another important story amidst many in the last couple chapters in Luke - it's is incredibly important to care for the poor, and that pursuing care for those on the margins is a priority when we live like Jesus in the world.
* But, what happens if we "put the record on backwards" so to speak? 
* When we start looking backwards at first, some attributes of both the rich man come into some sharper relief than when we focus first on his wealth and opulence:
	* He and his family were faithful people.  The fact that they had Moses and the prophets available to them meant that it was part of what they grew up with.
		* They, too, would have heard Amos's words to the north again this week.
		* They could have easily saw their circumstances as parallel to those who were wealthy back then.
		* In fact, this moment draws lots of parallels to 6:6: drinking wine from bowls, anointing with the finest oil, but not grieved over the ruin of Joseph (used generally to speak of the people of Israel)
	* He also could not stop himself from still living into being served
		* Every time I come back to this passage, it is the thing that still stops me in my tracks.
		* In no way is he fundamentally concerned with Lazarus and his past, or his current healing.  Lazarus is always an object for the rich man.
		* And perhaps we can be more sympathetic to him given his condition, but I also think we can affirm the incredulity of this moment: in the midst of pain and torment, it seems like our friend here just doesn't get why he's there... and that's even when Abraham explains it to him!  There is no remorse, no confession.
	* But the truth is, we need to see both characters here as people needing our sympathy, because they are both victims of the principles around them.
		* Lazarus is a more direct example, of course.
		* But the rich man has his own principles he's lived by
			* A good feast and party is going to lose some of its panache when a man with sores is right in the middle.
			* But in adhering to those principles he's abiding by - of pleasure, of opulence, of maintenance through his lavish lifestyle - he not only has hurt himself, but Lazarus in the process.
			* And to be honest, we struggle with this ourselves even in less glamorous circumstances
				* You know the drill - avoid eye contact, stay fixed on the red light, try to avoid any engagement of folks on the median.
				* And sure, maybe some of you give to the people panhandling, but it isn't easy or comfortable.
				* And the truth is, Phillips and University is no Vail or Davos.  Yet still, to have folks outside crashing into our days feels like an intrusion on the lives we made for ourselves.
* Luke continues to push us to realize that Jesus is demanding a new way of living; one that has eternal consequence.
* All of our texts today show us that as we are more satisfied and contented with our present situation, the harder it is to seek Jesus' way of living, Paul's letter to Timothy perhaps the most overt - an eagerness to be rich will lead us to wander, and "pierce ourselves with many pains"
* So, perhaps instead of angering us, it should give us sympathy, because no matter what our station in life, we will work to hold on to it, even at times at the expense of the things that will brings our souls satisfaction - and we should work furiously as a beloved community to help our siblings of particular means to consider their desire of wealth, because it has eternal consequence.
* And the truth is, we are all far more close to the rich man than we are to Lazarus.
* As a body, we need to be committed to telling a different story that what lingers in our world, and demonstrate the positive for the world, but also perhaps at times the punitive (after all, some of do respond better to vinegar than with honey, though we'd prefer not to).
