# 10.02.2022

* Looking around around the sanctuary today, you can see that a bit of effort went into preparing for this week.  That had included some prep for what could have happened as Ian barred down on the state.
* We laid plastic on either side where the carpet is, added towels to the windowsills, put backer rod in gaps in the doors. 
* On Friday, we figured it was the right time to go ahead and get everything cleaned up and back to normal, and so I put out a request of the Session members, and about half of them were available come.
* As we started to put things away, we noticed a family sitting at our door waiting.  Speaking no English, we had some effort communicating with them, but over time we got to know them.
	* They were a family, with children 10 and 8 that had left Medellin, Columbia in early September and had just arrived to the US in the middle of the month.
	* They surrendered themseleves to Border Patrol in Laredo, and found their way to Jacksonville because they had family here
	* However, the family here had put them in a position where they had to surrender their entire pay in order to stay, in essence setting up a labor trafficking situation.
	* Now homeless, they had used what little money they had left  to pay for a hotel room, and now were looking for help - food, water, clothing.
	* And while we found out later that they had gone to multiple churches - even some, according to them, that had people there - we did what we thought every church should do - we welcomed the strangers in our midst.
* We got to work:
	* A couple members went over to Publix and got the family lunch
	* Another member called Catholic Social Services and a neighbor who worked for Homeland Security so we could understand more of their situation
	* I called Sara Mitchell at UCOM and well as Cindy Caldwell to find out what network of people were available to help this family.  Cindy connected me with Silvia Almond, who assists families just like the family at our door to help them transition into our community.
	* By the time four hours were up, we had managed to extend their stay at the motel they're in, start the process to help them find more stable housing, and started to build other connections.  I know that members of Session have visited them even since Friday to check in and care for them.
	* We have follow-up meetings, conversations, and support in the coming week.
* I've wondered since Friday what Jesus would say to us, given this situation.
	* In light of our text today, I he'd say first "See, I told you so"
		* When we talk about faith, we treat it as though it's only a personal relationship. 
		* That can hurt us, especially if we connect faith with pleasure.  If we don't feel good, then something is wrong with our faith.
		* Yet, if we see that is a concept that is orientied towards outward action, we can witness the power it has
		* Our work Friday was a mustard seed of work amidst the issues around immigration.
		* But for a group of people - ourselves and that family, it moved mountains.  It tossed trees away. 
	* I think he's also say "okay, what's next"
		* The second part of the passage reminds us always of the tasks in front of us.
		* Even this worship, the "liturgy" is from a word in Latin meaning "the people's work"
		* It is alluring to think that what we did Friday was special.  And it feels more special when you might consider other churches or folks who might not have made the effort.
		* But in the midst of that, we can be tempted to think our work is done.  That we can kick up our heels and take a rest.
		* What are the implications though?  For both our faith (when we no longer see the small move so much), and for the world who needs still help?
		* So yes, we feel good, but we don't stop until we're done.  And the Spiritual rest might not come for a long time.
* How do we see all this less as burden and more as gift?
