# 10.30.22

* In terms of "miracle," the story of Zacchaeus is pretty benign
	* People have changes of heart all the time
	* FL/GA shows us that for the right event, people will draw a crowd for a big event, and Jesus at the time was the show
	* And, not surprisingly either, with this change of heart with someone who's not terribly appreciated, there's a grumbling from others
	* And interestingly enough, Z's response, based on the Greek, can lead to two places, but both pretty reasonable:
		* Either Z is saying "because of the miraculous turn of events and your notice of me Jesus, I'm going to change of my life"
		* Or he's saying "Jesus, I'm already doing some pretty good things with my resources - just because I'm wealthy and in a field that's is understandably unliked doesn't mean I'm not doing the right thing" (like a politician)
	* And yet, this story - only in Luke, btw, sticks with us... it's in songs, it's one of those we remember from when we were kids.
* The value in the mundane
	* There is something meaningful here in a story that very well could have happened weekly with Jesus: it's because in the day-to-day, good things can happen.  Good things are happening.
	* And in a stewardship season, especially with some many big things happening right now, it's worth spending time talking about the less exciting things because they give us the grounds in order to do things together.  It's nuts-and-bolts time!
* So let's talk about where we're at in 2022
	* We're still sitting on a surplus of about 20k
	* Some of that surplus, should it remain (which it looks like), will like be dedicated to growing our repair and replace, but also set aside for unexpected mission and ministry opportunities that we don't budget for, but we are called to do
		* Ex: ASL interpreters and expanding that ministry, caring for our family seeking asylum.
		* But it's also meant that we've established new ministries and grown current ministries
			* Reestablishing a separate Member Care committee that's meant to take on the pastoral care role that Deacons typically hold - we've recommitted to caring for folks in all moments of their life
			* Flourishing together series
			* We've grown youth group
			* We have had more fun spending time together and being in service to our community
		* We've continued to grown as a church, too... "I love coming into church and not knowing half the faces)
		* Between in person and online, we easy equal the amount of folks in attendance pre-COVID.
	* And, yes, we've made major steps towards our future with the building, but none of that really matters if there isn't ministry undergirding it.  Every square inch of the new building is meant to be for ministry to this whole community - those who attend and not.
		* Why have a home that those from the outside can't be invited to? 
		* As the design has come together, we never made a choice that didn't have benefit for both the people who call this church home and those who haven't yet.
	* We do that as a community - we pool resources together, and we make the best decisions we can.  Doesn't mean we'll always agree with each thing, but that's life in community.  We can't be held hostage by memberships and pledges because an individual doesn't like a specific decision.
* What does 2023 look like?
	* We have an increase of about 6% - what does that include?
		* We've incorporated ASL interpretation as a budget item - committing to growing that ministry
		* We've added a budget for member care - ensuring that there are resources
		* It includes 4% increases for staff, and a 2% increase for me (a commitment I made that I would only take half of the proposed increase of the rest of the staff)
		* And an increase to the Mission budget, which tracks 10% of the previous year's pledged giving.
	* But - it doesn't mean there's a 6% increase in your pledges
		* We've had nearly 100% pledged giving, as well as over 100% giving in regular (non-pledged) and loose offering
		* So should those trends hold, the same mark of $85 per week should hold.
		* So let's talk what that looks like
			* In the past, people would talk about "giving units" as people who give... but that doesn't really help us think about it as a shared commitment together.
			* Instead, I want to talk about these $85/week as units.
				* Some of us can give just one of those.
				* Some of us can give more than one
				* And some of us can't quite give at that amount.
				* All of that's okay - if we can create 100, $85/wk units, we meet our goal.
	* How?
		* We'll have a pledge card sent along with our annual report like we had last year.
		* And you can bring it in to us on 11/20, which will be our consecration Sunday
		* You can do it before then, and you can also do it online.
		* What's also going to be in the pledge card is response to the upcoming "job descriptions" that we'll talk about soon to help everyone find a home in ministry.
