# 11.06.22

* After the anti-semitic speech happened over the FLGA weekend, OneJax put together a response downtown in Weldon park.  Morgan, Connie and I were standing together.
* At the end of the time, we had a candlelight vigil
	* As Morgan and I were working on getting our candles lit, she mentioned to me how significant it felt for her to have a candlelight vigil outside of Christmas Eve, especially with people we don't typically sit across the pew from.
	* She said that it was an intimate thing to have to look other people in the eye and share that light with one another.
* And it's true - lots of these things we do can fade into rote motions, but let's think about a candlelight vigil:
	* Often, it starts from a single light
	* And its progress is built on a community
	* That light passes because of a minimum amount of moves on my part, but over time it grows
	* And, given a large enough space, I'm not going to see every single light, but I discover its effects around me.
	* That shared light - especially in the dark - is enough to allow us to go forward.  We sing silent night with the lights.
* All Saints is a candle-lighting moment for us too.
	* We take a moment to remember those who have gone before us this year, but we don't forget those from before this year either.
	* Their memories are the candles we hold - they're near us, present, clear.  Similar to a candle lit upon an _ofrenda_ to guide the spirits of those past, we hope that those we lost are nearby.  In that way, they're not quite dead, even if not quite alive here with us.
	* But today is also a reminder of the infinite sea of lights throughout time that keep light in what can keep all too dark.  All Saints is exactly that: an uncountable amount of small fire lights - so many beyond our vision, but we know they're there.
* Today's gospel is a reminder of what these lights mean.
	* Among many important points Jesus makes in the blessing and the woes, it's that nothing is permanent.
	* But in that impermanence, there's a call to perseverance.  To love, do good, bless and pray.
	* Jesus reminds us also that sometimes, that kind of love, goodness, blessing, and prayerfulness will hurt.  There are risks to living as Christ invites us to.
	* And gosh, to try to do it alone.  It's impossible.  Like a single candle meant to carry the light in an open field, it's vulnerable to a passing breeze, too quick of a move, a trip and fall.
	* But, as with any good vigil, if the light goes out, there's someone next to us to relight.
	* What's unique here is that amidst this deep sea of lights, the source is always near.
	* And so whether it's the grief of mourning those we lost, the gentle reminder of those we've learned to carry with us over time, or the moment to push back against the darkness of things like anti-semitism with the light of community, we rest in the confidence in a shared journey, and that our light, lent to others, is never burning in vain.
