---
date:
  - 2022-12-11
lectionary: 
bible: 
title: 
tags:
  - Advent
---

# 12.11.22

* One of my favorite ways to explore texts is through lectio divina
* In lectio, you read slowly and you imagine yourself there.
* And in this text, it's interesting to think about the sounds and the stories unfolding
* John
	* I wonder how John speaks these words?
	* Maybe our first instinct is one of anticipation - it's Advent and Christmas after all
	* But I also wonder if there's frustration in his voice
		* This guy has been tied to Jesus since birth, and since then has been preparing
		* He's been in the wilderness, he's eaten locusts, been baptizing, and now has been taken prisoner, in what we'll realize is a game for those who are in power.
		* So yeah, he might feel a little exasperated.  Is everything that he's done worth it, or has it become a total bust?
	* Of course, he's limited in his own ability to see what's happening, he depends on others to make that connection.
* And so they meet with Jesus, and do you notice his reply?  It's the classic "show, don't tell"
	* Jesus invites the disciples of John to take it in.  To experience Jesus for themselves.
	* In that experience, they are able to embody Jesus' ministry.  It isn't just a concept, but it is an experience.  And what they experience is nothing short of miracle.  The world changing in on itself. Redefining expectations.
	* But Jesus also reminds them that this work they had done was worthwhile.  The John's hard work and dedication, his grit and determination, was a reminder of his commitment. 
	* However, in the end, what Jesus is doing is far greater, far more, far more significant. 
	* That's Isa too - a time of great tumult and difficulty, the prophet tells of a time when things will be beyond our expectations.  Beauty and hope in places where they've not been seen.
* So I wonder today, as you sit in these pews for the first time in years, months, or a week, where do you see yourself?
	* You might see yourself as John
		* You've worked hard, you've committed to Jesus, and yet with circumstances beyond your control, you find yourself imprisoned.
		* You may have a glimpse of something, but you've not seen the fullness of what was promised.
		* So you sit, at distance, wondering
		* So you might ask in anticipatory, hopeful ways, or you might ask in angst-filled, frustrated ways, but being here, you've asked.
	* You might also see yourself as a messenger
		* You've spent time in the wilderness, and you're trying to make sense of what's happening.
		* You're acting as a go-between for those who are in prison and those who are still out who did not have to world happen to place them in a cell
		* And now, you have a chance to experience resurrection.  Life coming in places that looked like deserted spaces.  New life springing up everywhere.
	* In either case, we are all encouraged that the grit and determination was worth it.  There was no other ways. 
	* But yet there is far more to experience, far more to hope for, far more to believe in beyond what is seen.
* But more than anything, everything hinges on the experience.  Tasting, seeing, witnessing, embodying. 
* Let today, as we find hope in the unseen, be a commitment to experience.  No one can promise it'll be soft robes and Polaroids of the wind blowing gently.  But it is abundant life.
