# Lent 3 2021

#hope #foolishness #ted-lasso #wisdom 

First Reading **1 Corinthians 1:18-25**
1:18 For the message about the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God.
1:19 For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart."
1:20 Where is the one who is wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?
1:21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, God decided, through the foolishness of our proclamation, to save those who believe.
1:22 For Jews demand signs and Greeks desire wisdom,
1:23 but we proclaim Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles,
1:24 but to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God.
1:25 For God's foolishness is wiser than human wisdom, and God's weakness is stronger than human strength.

Second Reading **John 2:13-22**
2:13 The Passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
2:14 In the temple he found people selling cattle, sheep, and doves, and the money changers seated at their tables.
2:15 Making a whip of cords, he drove all of them out of the temple, both the sheep and the cattle. He also poured out the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables.
2:16 He told those who were selling the doves, "Take these things out of here! Stop making my Father's house a marketplace!"
2:17 His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for your house will consume me."
2:18 The Jews then said to him, "What sign can you show us for doing this?"
2:19 Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."
2:20 The Jews then said, "This temple has been under construction for forty-six years, and will you raise it up in three days?"
2:21 But he was speaking of the temple of his body.
2:22 After he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this; and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. 

* Lots of colleagues are doing retrospectives.  Understandably given we're approaching the anniversary of when our worlds all became very different.
* My retrospective is about my favorite show that I watched in 2020, Ted Lasso. 
* TED LASSO
	* Premise
		* The show tells the story of AFC Richmond, a fictitious West London top flight soccer club.
		* It was perpetually mediocre team, and had recently had a change of ownership to Rebecca Welton.  Rebecca had recently been divorced from her philandering and all-around terrible person Rupert Mannion.
		* As one of her first acts as head of AFC Richmond, Rebecca fires the current manager and instead, hires aforementioned Ted Lasso.  While having had recent success by leading the Division II Wichita State Shockers to a NCAA championship, he had absolutely no knowledge of the game of soccer.
		* Shortly after Lasso's first, disastrous time with the press, Rebecca's true desire  comes to light - because AFC Richmond is the only thing that Rupert ever truly loved, Rebecca was seeing to it that the team was relegated out of the Premiere League and leading to its ruin. 
		* So, with this in the back of our mind, we see how Ted tries his best to turn Richmond around.
	* Wisdom, Foolishness, Consequence
		* So much of the first season asks the viewer to consider what is foolish or wise, like our 1 Cor passage today.
		* Anyone who was a die hard football fan would have said that the hire of Ted Lasso was supremely foolish.
		* For Rebecca though, it was supremely wise - she's achieving her end.
			* Except, as the season continues, we see that it's much harder to sink Rupert, and that his awful nature still finds ways as often as is possible to hurt Rebecca, as it's clear he had done for most of the time that they'd been married.
			* So, this wisdom of Rebecca's feels more and more like foolishness in a different way - that the redemptive moment she's looking for isn't really possible.
		* In fact, the redemptive arc that's most interesting in the whole series isn't Ted Lasso's or AFC Richmonds, but is Rebecca's, whose heart changes over time.
		* It is precisely in the character of Ted Lasso - an affable, kind-hearted, team-first coach and person - perceived by so many to be foolishness, becomes the wisdom that changes everything around him.
* This all leads us to the question that these two passages pose to us - what really is foolish, and what is wise?
	* Jesus here seems to be doing multiple foolish things all at once
		* All of this driving out of economics here certainly doesn't seem all that useful - there were folks in the temple, after all.  The wisdom would be to see what was happening as good.
		* But Jesus' anger here was about this apparent wisdom is moot because what is truly at stake is where the heart is for God's inbreaking - the hope against hope, the light peeking through into the wilderness.  And, at the end of the John text, we see that God's inbreaking is right in Jesus himself.
		* This is, of course, even more foolish speak - would make more sense to have it in the Temple, or have Jesus be a triumphant king.  But it is precisely these Lasso-esque moments that remind us that perhaps the most foolish things that are truly at the heart of God are precisely what is wise and what will bring God's Kingdom.
* Believe
	* Early in Ted Lasso, he makes a massive sign that says "Believe" on it, and it hangs it over his office door, and this continues to be at the core of who he is.  His believe transcends even the most foolish of moments.
	* At the end of the season, with a nearly impossible game ahead of them, Ted asks a question of his team about the phrase "it's the hope that kills you"
	* It's the lack of hope that comes and gets ya.  I believe in hope, I believe in believe.  Back where I'm from, we have a saying, too... it's a question... Do you believe in miracles?
	* Win, lose, draw, no matter what, I believed in miracles.  In that penultimate moment, this strange year, these difficult moments, all that I'd gone through and what I knew the people around me were going through - as only a gospel truth that transcends media can - I realized it wasn't the wisdom of avoiding foolish hope that saves you, it's the foolishness of living into it that was the wisest thing of all.
	* What might that foolish hope have in store for us personally?  Or as a church?
